




subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,

facility: www.gutenberg.org
Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search

edition.
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed

volunteer support.
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation

outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make

approach us with offers to donate.
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we

state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating

status with the IRS.
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide

Literary Archive Foundation
Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

    gbnewby@pglaf.org
    Chief Executive and Director
    Dr. Gregory B. Newby

For additional contact information:

official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the

U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



www.gutenberg.org
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the

from people in all walks of life.
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Defect you cause.
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

remaining provisions.
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied

LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

without further opportunities to fix the problem.
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a

DAMAGE.
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right

cannot be read by your equipment.
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable

1.F.

trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.
* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free

  receipt of the work.
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

  works.
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies

  Literary Archive Foundation."
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from

provided that
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,

full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

Gutenberg-tm License.
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm

beginning of this work.
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted

trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is

  are located before using this ebook.
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

performed, viewed, copied or distributed:
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

country outside the United States.
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern

you share it without charge with others.
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the

electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be

1.E.8.
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm

Gutenberg-tm electronic works
Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project

www.gutenberg.org/license.
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK
THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

START: FULL LICENSE

trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
States without permission and without paying copyright
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright

be renamed.
Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will

Produced by an anonymous Project Gutenberg volunteer and Jose Menendez

        http://www.gutenberg.org/1/6/6/1661/
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
***** This file should be named 1661-0.txt or 1661-0.zip *****

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ADVENTURES OF SHERLOCK HOLMES ***

Arthur Conan Doyle
End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes, by 






Walsall, where I believe that she has met with considerable success.
one of his problems, and she is now the head of a private school at
further interest in her when once she had ceased to be the centre of
Hunter, my friend Holmes, rather to my disappointment, manifested no
government appointment in the island of Mauritius. As to Miss Violet
Southampton the day after their flight, and he is now the holder of a
Fowler and Miss Rucastle were married, by special license, in
Rucastle’s past life that he finds it difficult to part from them. Mr.
They still live with their old servants, who probably know so much of
broken man, kept alive solely through the care of his devoted wife.
beeches in front of the door. Mr. Rucastle survived, but was always a
And thus was solved the mystery of the sinister house with the copper

_locus standi_ now is rather a questionable one.”
best escort Miss Hunter back to Winchester, as it seems to me that our
the country surgeon and Mrs. Rucastle, so I think, Watson, that we had
have certainly cleared up everything which puzzled us. And here comes
“I am sure we owe you an apology, Mrs. Toller,” said Holmes, “for you

“You have it, sir, just as it happened.”

had gone out.”
drink, and that a ladder should be ready at the moment when your master
“And in this way he managed that your good man should have no want of

Toller serenely.
“Mr. Fowler was a very kind-spoken, free-handed gentleman,” said Mrs.

same as his.”
metallic or otherwise, in convincing you that your interests were the
blockaded the house, and having met you succeeded by certain arguments,
“But Mr. Fowler being a persevering man, as a good seaman should be,

“That was it, sir.”

disagreeable persistence of Mr. Fowler.”
“And brought Miss Hunter down from London in order to get rid of the

“Yes, sir.”

imprisonment?”
remains. Mr. Rucastle then, I presume, took to this system of
us makes the matter fairly clear, and that I can deduce all that
“Ah,” said Holmes, “I think that what you have been good enough to tell

true as man could be.”
that didn’t make no change in her young man, and he stuck to her as
at last, all worn to a shadow, and with her beautiful hair cut off; but
brain-fever, and for six weeks was at death’s door. Then she got better
money. When she wouldn’t do it, he kept on worrying her until she got
to sign a paper, so that whether she married or not, he could use her
him, then her father thought it time to put a stop on it. He wanted her
husband coming forward, who would ask for all that the law would give
hands. He knew he was safe with her; but when there was a chance of a
never said a word about them but just left everything in Mr. Rucastle’s
her own by will, but she was so quiet and patient, she was, that she
at a friend’s house. As well as I could learn, Miss Alice had rights of
but it never really became bad for her until after she met Mr. Fowler
father married again. She was slighted like and had no say in anything,
“She was never happy at home, Miss Alice wasn’t, from the time that her

that stood your friend, and that I was Miss Alice’s friend too.
police-court business over this, you’ll remember that I was the one
before now if I could ha’ got out from the cellar. If there’s
“I will soon make it clear to you,” said she; “and I’d have done so

on which I must confess that I am still in the dark.”
“Then, pray, sit down, and let us hear it for there are several points

“Yes, sir, I do, and I am ready enough to tell what I know.”

knows more about this matter than anyone else.”
“Ha!” said Holmes, looking keenly at her. “It is clear that Mrs. Toller

planning, for I would have told you that your pains were wasted.”
to you. Ah, miss, it is a pity you didn’t let me know what you were
“Yes, miss. Mr. Rucastle let me out when he came back before he went up

“Mrs. Toller!” cried Miss Hunter.

when the door opened, and a tall, gaunt woman entered the room.
did what I could to relieve his pain. We were all assembled round him
having dispatched the sobered Toller to bear the news to his wife, I
mangled, into the house. We laid him upon the drawing-room sofa, and
much labour we separated them and carried him, living but horribly
keen white teeth still meeting in the great creases of his neck. With
ground. Running up, I blew its brains out, and it fell over with its
buried in Rucastle’s throat, while he writhed and screamed upon the
hurrying behind us. There was the huge famished brute, its black muzzle
Holmes and I rushed out and round the angle of the house, with Toller

two days. Quick, quick, or it’ll be too late!”
“My God!” he cried. “Someone has loosed the dog. It’s not been fed for

face and shaking limbs came staggering out at a side door.
sound which it was dreadful to listen to. An elderly man with a red
baying of a hound, and then a scream of agony, with a horrible worrying
stairs together. We had hardly reached the hall when we heard the
“Better close the front door,” cried Holmes, and we all rushed down the

“I have my revolver,” said I.

“He’s gone for the dog!” cried Miss Hunter.

you!” He turned and clattered down the stairs as hard as he could go.
thieves! I have caught you, have I? You are in my power. I’ll serve
“It is for me to ask you that,” he shrieked, “you thieves! Spies and

The fat man cast his eyes round, and then up at the open skylight.

“You villain!” said he, “where’s your daughter?”

him, but Sherlock Holmes sprang forward and confronted him.
hand. Miss Hunter screamed and shrunk against the wall at the sight of
door of the room, a very fat and burly man, with a heavy stick in his
The words were hardly out of his mouth before a man appeared at the

as well for you to have your pistol ready.”
whose step I hear now upon the stair. I think, Watson, that it would be
dangerous man. I should not be very much surprised if this were he
“He has come back and done it. I tell you that he is a clever and

when the Rucastles went away.”
“But it is impossible,” said Miss Hunter; “the ladder was not there

long light ladder against the eaves. That is how he did it.”
himself up onto the roof. “Ah, yes,” he cried, “here’s the end of a
“Through the skylight. We shall soon see how he managed it.” He swung

“But how?”

guessed Miss Hunter’s intentions and has carried his victim off.”
“There has been some villainy here,” said Holmes; “this beauty has

skylight above was open, and the prisoner gone.
save a little pallet bed, a small table, and a basketful of linen. The
Together we rushed into the room. It was empty. There was no furniture
It was an old rickety door and gave at once before our united strength.

it, and we shall see whether we cannot make our way in.”
that we had better go in without you. Now, Watson, put your shoulder to
“I trust that we are not too late,” said he. “I think, Miss Hunter,

from within, and at the silence Holmes’ face clouded over.
tried the various keys in the lock, but without success. No sound came
described. Holmes cut the cord and removed the transverse bar. Then he
and found ourselves in front of the barricade which Miss Hunter had
We passed up the stair, unlocked the door, followed on down a passage,

the way, and we shall soon see the end of this black business.”
“You have done well indeed!” cried Holmes with enthusiasm. “Now lead

Rucastle’s.”
kitchen rug. Here are his keys, which are the duplicates of Mr.
Toller in the cellar,” said she. “Her husband lies snoring on the
A loud thudding noise came from somewhere downstairs. “That is Mrs.

“Have you managed it?” asked Holmes.

had Miss Hunter not been standing smiling on the door-step.
the light of the setting sun, were sufficient to mark the house even
group of trees, with their dark leaves shining like burnished metal in
Copper Beeches, having put up our trap at a wayside public-house. The
We were as good as our word, for it was just seven when we reached the

and it will not be long before we solve the mystery.”
can do nothing until seven o’clock. At that hour we shall be with you,
“We must be circumspect, for we are dealing with a very cunning man. We

creature.”
it. Oh, let us lose not an instant in bringing help to this poor
thousand things come back to me which make me certain that you have hit
“I am sure that you are right, Mr. Holmes,” cried our client. “A

their power.”
suspect, or from his mother, it bodes evil for the poor girl who is in
sake, and whether he derives this from his smiling father, as I should
This child’s disposition is abnormally cruel, merely for cruelty’s
real insight into the character of parents by studying their children.
that the converse is equally valid. I have frequently gained my first
to the tendencies of a child by the study of the parents. Don’t you see
“My dear Watson, you as a medical man are continually gaining light as

“What on earth has that to do with it?” I ejaculated.

is the disposition of the child.”
with her. So much is fairly clear. The most serious point in the case
is let loose at night to prevent him from endeavouring to communicate
perfectly happy, and that she no longer desired his attentions. The dog
saw you, and afterwards from your gesture, that Miss Rucastle was
and were so like her, he was convinced from your laughter, whenever he
hers—possibly her _fiancé_—and no doubt, as you wore the girl’s dress
upon her tresses. The man in the road was undoubtedly some friend of
course, yours had to be sacrificed also. By a curious chance you came
very possibly in some illness through which she has passed, and so, of
height, figure, and the colour of your hair. Hers had been cut off,
have gone to America. You were chosen, doubtless, as resembling her in
the daughter, Miss Alice Rucastle, if I remember right, who was said to
That is obvious. As to who this prisoner is, I have no doubt that it is
personate someone, and the real person is imprisoned in this chamber.
there is only one feasible explanation. You have been brought there to
“Excellent! We shall then look thoroughly into the affair. Of course

“I will do it.”

key upon her, you would facilitate matters immensely.”
you could send her into the cellar on some errand, and then turn the
incapable. There only remains Mrs. Toller, who might give the alarm. If
The Rucastles will be gone by that time, and Toller will, we hope, be
“We shall be at the Copper Beeches by seven o’clock, my friend and I.

“I will try. What is it?”

exceptional woman.”
more feat? I should not ask it of you if I did not think you a quite
and sensible girl, Miss Hunter. Do you think that you could perform one
“You seem to me to have acted all through this matter like a very brave

“Yes, the wine-cellar.”

“Is there a cellar with a good strong lock?”

“Yes.”

“That is well. And the Rucastles go out to-night?”

with him.”
“Yes. I heard his wife tell Mrs. Rucastle that she could do nothing

“Is Toller still drunk?” he asked.

pockets, and an expression of the most profound gravity upon his face.
friend rose now and paced up and down the room, his hands in his
Holmes and I had listened spellbound to this extraordinary story. My

tell me what it all means, and, above all, what I should do.”
all my adventures, Mr. Holmes, and I should be very glad if you could
the evening, so that I must look after the child. Now I have told you
for Mr. and Mrs. Rucastle are going on a visit, and will be away all
into Winchester this morning, but I must be back before three o’clock,
the thought of seeing you. I had no difficulty in getting leave to come
free. I slipped in in safety and lay awake half the night in my joy at
any influence with the savage creature, or who would venture to set him
evening, and I knew that he was the only one in the household who had
that Toller had drunk himself into a state of insensibility that
as I approached the door lest the dog might be loose, but I remembered
returned, feeling very much easier. A horrible doubt came into my mind
to the office, which is about half a mile from the house, and then
made up. I would send you a wire. I put on my hat and cloak, went down
but my curiosity was almost as strong as my fears. My mind was soon
you down all would be well. Of course I might have fled from the house,
even of the child. They were all horrible to me. If I could only bring
frightened of the house, of the man, of the woman, of the servants,
Mr. Holmes. I could not live there longer without some advice. I was
found myself lying on my bed trembling all over. Then I thought of you,
must have rushed past him into my room. I remember nothing until I
“I was so terrified that I do not know what I did. I suppose that I

to the mastiff.’
rage, and he glared down at me with the face of a demon—‘I’ll throw you
threshold again’—here in an instant the smile hardened into a grin of
“‘Well, then, you know now. And if you ever put your foot over that

“‘I am sure if I had known—’

was still smiling in the most amiable manner.
“‘It is to keep people out who have no business there. Do you see?’ He

“‘I am sure that I do not know.’

“‘Why do you think that I lock this door?’

“‘Why, what did you think?’ I asked.

“‘Only that?’ said he, looking at me keenly.

out again. Oh, it is so dreadfully still in there!’
is so lonely and eerie in this dim light that I was frightened and ran
“‘I was foolish enough to go into the empty wing,’ I answered. ‘But it

keenly on my guard against him.
“But his voice was just a little too coaxing. He overdid it. I was

dear young lady?’
caressing and soothing his manner was—‘and what has frightened you, my
“‘My dear young lady! my dear young lady!’—you cannot think how

“‘Oh, I am so frightened!’ I panted.

when I saw the door open.’
“‘So,’ said he, smiling, ‘it was you, then. I thought that it must be

outside.
the door, and straight into the arms of Mr. Rucastle, who was waiting
clutching at the skirt of my dress. I rushed down the passage, through
turned and ran—ran as though some dreadful hand were behind me
sight, Mr. Holmes. My overstrung nerves failed me suddenly, and I
out from under the door. A mad, unreasoning terror rose up in me at the
backward and forward against the little slit of dim light which shone
suddenly heard the sound of steps within the room and saw a shadow pass
gazing at the sinister door and wondering what secret it might veil, I
skylight which let in light from above. As I stood in the passage
beneath it that the room was not in darkness. Evidently there was a
shuttered window outside, and yet I could see by the glimmer from
key was not there. This barricaded door corresponded clearly with the
the other with stout cord. The door itself was locked as well, and the
iron bed, padlocked at one end to a ring in the wall, and fastened at
across the outside of it had been fastened one of the broad bars of an
light glimmered dimly through them. The centre door was closed, and
in the one and one in the other, so thick with dirt that the evening
They each led into an empty room, dusty and cheerless, with two windows
were three doors in a line, the first and third of which were open.
which turned at a right angle at the farther end. Round this corner
“There was a little passage in front of me, unpapered and uncarpeted,

in the lock, opened the door, and slipped through.
them, so that I had an admirable opportunity. I turned the key gently
Mr. and Mrs. Rucastle were both downstairs, and the child was with
the key in the door. I have no doubt at all that he had left it there.
yesterday evening he was very drunk; and when I came upstairs there was
bag with him through the door. Recently he has been drinking hard, and
these deserted rooms, and I once saw him carrying a large black linen
besides Mr. Rucastle, both Toller and his wife find something to do in
“It was only yesterday that the chance came. I may tell you that,

chance to pass the forbidden door.
At any rate, it was there, and I was keenly on the lookout for any
instinct; perhaps it was woman’s instinct which gave me that feeling.
might come from my penetrating to this place. They talk of woman’s
share of that. It was more a feeling of duty—a feeling that some good
on fire to go over them. It was not mere curiosity, though I have my
something about that suite of rooms which I was not to know, I was all
“Well, Mr. Holmes, from the moment that I understood that there was

me. I read suspicion there and annoyance, but no jest.
in a jesting tone, but there was no jest in his eyes as he looked at
Who would have believed it? Who would have ever believed it?’ He spoke
up there. But, dear me! what an observant young lady we have come upon.
“‘Photography is one of my hobbies,’ said he. ‘I have made my dark room

remark.
“He looked surprised and, as it seemed to me, a little startled at my

shutters up.’
to have quite a suite of spare rooms up there, and one of them has the
“I assured him that I was not offended. ‘By the way,’ said I, ‘you seem

word, my dear young lady. I was preoccupied with business matters.’
“‘Ah!’ said he, ‘you must not think me rude if I passed you without a

merry and jovial as ever.
glancing at them occasionally, Mr. Rucastle came out to me, looking as
up. They were evidently all deserted. As I strolled up and down,
row, three of which were simply dirty, while the fourth was shuttered
see the windows of this part of the house. There were four of them in a
grounds with my charge, I strolled round to the side from which I could
“This aroused my curiosity, so when I went out for a walk in the

past me without a word or a look.
stood out at his temples with passion. He locked the door and hurried
cheeks were red, his brow was all crinkled with anger, and the veins
different person to the round, jovial man to whom I was accustomed. His
his keys in his hand, and a look on his face which made him a very
ascended the stair, I met Mr. Rucastle coming out through this door,
this suite, but it was invariably locked. One day, however, as I
which faced that which led into the quarters of the Tollers opened into
one wing, however, which appeared not to be inhabited at all. A door
soon had a pretty good plan of the whole house in my head. There was
“I am naturally observant, as you may have remarked, Mr. Holmes, and I

drawer which they had locked.
Rucastles as I felt that I had put myself in the wrong by opening a
the strange hair to the drawer, and I said nothing of the matter to the
as I would, I could make nothing at all of what it meant. I returned
assure you that they were identical. Was it not extraordinary? Puzzle
from the bottom my own hair. I laid the two tresses together, and I
trembling hands I undid my trunk, turned out the contents, and drew
itself upon me. How could my hair have been locked in the drawer? With
the same thickness. But then the impossibility of the thing obtruded
“I took it up and examined it. It was of the same peculiar tint, and

was my coil of hair.
thing in it, but I am sure that you would never guess what it was. It
fitted to perfection, and I drew the drawer open. There was only one
took out my bunch of keys and tried to open it. The very first key
It struck me that it might have been fastened by a mere oversight, so I
away I was naturally annoyed at not having the use of the third drawer.
had filled the first two with my linen, and as I had still much to pack
the room, the two upper ones empty and open, the lower one locked. I
rearranging my own little things. There was an old chest of drawers in
began to amuse myself by examining the furniture of my room and by
the bottom of my trunk. One evening, after the child was in bed, I
know, cut off my hair in London, and I had placed it in a great coil at
“And now I have a very strange experience to tell you. I had, as you

which I do not think that any burglar could have done.
upon the other side. That dreadful sentinel sent a chill to my heart
bones. It walked slowly across the lawn and vanished into the shadow
tawny tinted, with hanging jowl, black muzzle, and huge projecting
moonshine I saw what it was. It was a giant dog, as large as a calf,
moving under the shadow of the copper beeches. As it emerged into the
peaceful beauty of the scene, when I was aware that something was
silvered over and almost as bright as day. I was standing, rapt in the
beautiful moonlight night, and the lawn in front of the house was
out of my bedroom window about two o’clock in the morning. It was a
“The warning was no idle one, for two nights later I happened to look

as much as your life is worth.’
ever on any pretext set your foot over the threshold at night, for it’s
trespasser whom he lays his fangs upon. For goodness’ sake don’t you
keen as mustard. Toller lets him loose every night, and God help the
feed him once a day, and not too much then, so that he is always as
old Toller, my groom, is the only man who can do anything with him. We
had given. ‘It’s only Carlo, my mastiff. I call him mine, but really
“‘Don’t be frightened,’ said my employer, laughing at the start which I

figure huddled up in the darkness.
“I looked through and was conscious of two glowing eyes, and of a vague

planks. ‘Is he not a beauty?’
“‘Look in here!’ said Mr. Rucastle, showing me a slit between two

of a large animal moving about.
approached it I heard the sharp rattling of a chain, and the sound as
me to a small outhouse which stands near the kitchen door. As we
the very first day that I was at the Copper Beeches, Mr. Rucastle took
be little relation between the different incidents of which I speak. On
“You will find it rather disconnected, I fear, and there may prove to

interesting one.”
“Pray continue,” said Holmes. “Your narrative promises to be a most

road.”
in the window, nor have I worn the blue dress, nor seen the man in the
the blind. That was a week ago, and from that time I have not sat again
“I did as I was told, and at the same instant Mrs. Rucastle drew down

and wave him away like that.’
“‘No, no, we should have him loitering here always. Kindly turn round

“‘Surely it would be better to take no notice.’

go away.’
“‘Dear me! How very impertinent! Kindly turn round and motion to him to

“‘No, I know no one in these parts.’

“‘No friend of yours, Miss Hunter?’ he asked.

there who stares up at Miss Hunter.’
“‘Jephro,’ said she, ‘there is an impertinent fellow upon the road

was behind me. She rose at once.
that she had divined that I had a mirror in my hand and had seen what
me with a most searching gaze. She said nothing, but I am convinced
handkerchief and glanced at Mrs. Rucastle to find her eyes fixed upon
bordered our field and was looking earnestly up. I lowered my
people there. This man, however, was leaning against the railings which
my direction. The road is an important highway, and there are usually
Road, a small bearded man in a grey suit, who seemed to be looking in
however, I perceived that there was a man standing in the Southampton
nothing. At least that was my first impression. At the second glance,
there was behind me. I confess that I was disappointed. There was
up to my eyes, and was able with a little management to see all that
the next occasion, in the midst of my laughter, I put my handkerchief
seized me, and I concealed a piece of the glass in my handkerchief. On
devised a means. My hand-mirror had been broken, so a happy thought
on behind my back. At first it seemed to be impossible, but I soon
window, so that I became consumed with the desire to see what was going
were always very careful, I observed, to turn my face away from the
the meaning of this extraordinary performance could possibly be. They
“You can easily imagine, Mr. Holmes, how curious I became as to what

ordered me to cease and to change my dress.
heart of a chapter, and then suddenly, in the middle of a sentence, he
to read aloud to him. I read for about ten minutes, beginning in the
sideways, that my own shadow might not fall upon the page, he begged me
Then he handed me a yellow-backed novel, and moving my chair a little
my employer had an immense _répertoire_, and which he told inimitably.
window, and again I laughed very heartily at the funny stories of which
similar circumstances. Again I changed my dress, again I sat in the
“Two days later this same performance was gone through under exactly

little Edward in the nursery.
the duties of the day, and that I might change my dress and go to
hour or so, Mr. Rucastle suddenly remarked that it was time to commence
her hands in her lap, and a sad, anxious look upon her face. After an
has evidently no sense of humour, never so much as smiled, but sat with
was, and I laughed until I was quite weary. Mrs. Rucastle, however, who
stories that I have ever listened to. You cannot imagine how comical he
the other side of the room, began to tell me a series of the funniest
this I was asked to sit, and then Mr. Rucastle, walking up and down on
placed close to the central window, with its back turned towards it. In
with three long windows reaching down to the floor. A chair had been
is a very large room, stretching along the entire front of the house,
in its vehemence. They were waiting for me in the drawing-room, which
expressed a delight at the look of it, which seemed quite exaggerated
better fit if I had been measured for it. Both Mr. and Mrs. Rucastle
unmistakable signs of having been worn before. It could not have been a
blue. It was of excellent material, a sort of beige, but it bore
“The dress which I found waiting for me was of a peculiar shade of

would be so good as to put it on we should both be extremely obliged.’
you. You will find it laid out upon the bed in your room, and if you
appearance. We shall now see how the electric-blue dress will become
I assure you that it has not detracted in the tiniest iota from your
Miss Hunter, for falling in with our whims so far as to cut your hair.
“‘Oh, yes,’ said he, turning to me, ‘we are very much obliged to you,

whispered something to her husband.
quiet; on the third, Mrs. Rucastle came down just after breakfast and
“For two days after my arrival at the Copper Beeches my life was very

the building.
nursery and my own room, which are next to each other in one corner of
most unpleasant couple, but fortunately I spend most of my time in the
sour face, as silent as Mrs. Rucastle and much less amiable. They are a
take no notice of it. His wife is a very tall and strong woman with a
been with them he has been quite drunk, and yet Mr. Rucastle seemed to
hair and whiskers, and a perpetual smell of drink. Twice since I have
Toller, for that is his name, is a rough, uncouth man, with grizzled
conduct of the servants. There are only two, a man and his wife.
thing about the house, which struck me at once, was the appearance and
“I shall try not to miss anything of importance. The one unpleasant

you to be relevant or not.”
“I am glad of all details,” remarked my friend, “whether they seem to

creature, Mr. Holmes, and, indeed, he has little to do with my story.”
little birds, and insects. But I would rather not talk about the
he shows quite remarkable talent in planning the capture of mice,
creature weaker than himself seems to be his one idea of amusement, and
fits of passion and gloomy intervals of sulking. Giving pain to any
His whole life appears to be spent in an alternation between savage
small for his age, with a head which is quite disproportionately large.
met so utterly spoiled and so ill-natured a little creature. He is
disposition of her child which weighed upon her mind, for I have never
have surprised her in tears. I have thought sometimes that it was the
in deep thought, with the saddest look upon her face. More than once I
And yet she had some secret sorrow, this woman. She would often be lost
boisterous fashion, and on the whole they seemed to be a happy couple.
forestalling it if possible. He was kind to her also in his bluff,
continually from one to the other, noting every little want and
her husband and to her little son. Her light grey eyes wandered
nonentity. It was easy to see that she was passionately devoted both to
feature. She impressed me neither favourably nor the reverse. She was a
“Mrs. Rucastle seemed to me to be colourless in mind as well as in

her position must have been uncomfortable with her father’s young wife.
daughter could not have been less than twenty, I can quite imagine that
was that she had an unreasoning aversion to her stepmother. As the
Mr. Rucastle told me in private that the reason why she had left them
child by the first wife was the daughter who has gone to Philadelphia.
married about seven years, that he was a widower, and that his only
forty-five. From their conversation I have gathered that they have been
than thirty, I should think, while he can hardly be less than
be a silent, pale-faced woman, much younger than her husband, not more
in your rooms at Baker Street. Mrs. Rucastle is not mad. I found her to
truth, Mr. Holmes, in the conjecture which seemed to us to be probable
introduced by him that evening to his wife and the child. There was no
“I was driven over by my employer, who was as amiable as ever, and was

in front of the hall door has given its name to the place.
of Lord Southerton’s preserves. A clump of copper beeches immediately
ground in front belongs to the house, but the woods all round are part
which curves past about a hundred yards from the front door. This
on the fourth a field which slopes down to the Southampton highroad,
and bad weather. There are grounds round it, woods on three sides, and
block of a house, whitewashed, but all stained and streaked with damp
situated, but it is not beautiful in itself, for it is a large square
his dog-cart to the Copper Beeches. It is, as he said, beautifully
occurred. When I came down, Mr. Rucastle met me here and drove me in
“Their reasons for their conduct. But you shall have it all just as it

“What can you not understand?”

mind about them.”
them to say that. But I cannot understand them, and I am not easy in my
actual ill-treatment from Mr. and Mrs. Rucastle. It is only fair to
“In the first place, I may say that I have met, on the whole, with no

legs out towards the fire and composed himself to listen.
“Let us have everything in its due order.” Holmes thrust his long thin

though he little knew for what purpose.”
be back before three. I got his leave to come into town this morning,
“I will do so, and I must be quick, for I have promised Mr. Rucastle to

“Pray tell us what has happened to you.”

advice will be altogether invaluable to me.”
very kind of you both; but indeed I do not know what I should do. Your
“I am so delighted that you have come,” she said earnestly. “It is so

had engaged a sitting-room, and our lunch awaited us upon the table.
from the station, and there we found the young lady waiting for us. She
The Black Swan is an inn of repute in the High Street, at no distance

shall soon learn all that Miss Hunter has to tell.”
find waiting for us. Well, there is the tower of the cathedral, and we
only be determined by the fresh information which we shall no doubt
the facts as far as we know them. But which of these is correct can
“I have devised seven separate explanations, each of which would cover

“What _can_ be the matter, then? Can you suggest no explanation?”

“Quite so. She has her freedom.”

“No. If she can come to Winchester to meet us she can get away.”

threatened.”
which makes the danger. Still, it is clear that she is not personally
should never have had a fear for her. It is the five miles of country
this lady who appeals to us for help gone to live in Winchester, I
may go on, year in, year out, in such places, and none the wiser. Had
law. Think of the deeds of hellish cruelty, the hidden wickedness which
filled for the most part with poor ignorant folk who know little of the
and the dock. But look at these lonely houses, each in its own fields,
complaint can set it going, and there is but a step between the crime
the whole machinery of justice is ever so close that a word of
does not beget sympathy and indignation among the neighbours, and then
that the scream of a tortured child, or the thud of a drunkard’s blow,
in the town what the law cannot accomplish. There is no lane so vile
“But the reason is very obvious. The pressure of public opinion can do

“You horrify me!”

beautiful countryside.”
do not present a more dreadful record of sin than does the smiling and
founded upon my experience, that the lowest and vilest alleys in London
“They always fill me with a certain horror. It is my belief, Watson,

homesteads?”
“Good heavens!” I cried. “Who would associate crime with these dear old

which crime may be committed there.”
comes to me is a feeling of their isolation and of the impunity with
impressed by their beauty. I look at them, and the only thought which
my own special subject. You look at these scattered houses, and you are
with a turn like mine that I must look at everything with reference to
“Do you know, Watson,” said he, “that it is one of the curses of a mind

But Holmes shook his head gravely.

a man fresh from the fogs of Baker Street.
“Are they not fresh and beautiful?” I cried with all the enthusiasm of

amid the light green of the new foliage.
the little red and grey roofs of the farm-steadings peeped out from
All over the countryside, away to the rolling hills around Aldershot,
an exhilarating nip in the air, which set an edge to a man’s energy.
from west to east. The sun was shining very brightly, and yet there was
light blue sky, flecked with little fleecy white clouds drifting across
down and began to admire the scenery. It was an ideal spring day, a
way down, but after we had passed the Hampshire border he threw them
English capital. Holmes had been buried in the morning papers all the
By eleven o’clock the next day we were well upon our way to the old

morning.”
analysis of the acetones, as we may need to be at our best in the
“That will do very nicely. Then perhaps I had better postpone my

Bradshaw. “It is due at Winchester at 11:30.”
“There is a train at half-past nine,” said I, glancing over my

“Just look it up, then.”

“I should wish to.”

“Will you come with me?” asked Holmes, glancing up.


“HUNTER.”


it said. “Do come! I am at my wit’s end.
“Please be at the Black Swan Hotel at Winchester at midday to-morrow,”

The summons was a brief and urgent one.

chemical studies.
“Just look up the trains in Bradshaw,” said he, and turned back to his

message, threw it across to me.
morning. He opened the yellow envelope, and then, glancing at the
find him in the same position when I came down to breakfast in the
would leave him stooping over a retort and a test-tube at night and
all-night chemical researches which he frequently indulged in, when I
was thinking of turning in and Holmes was settling down to one of those
The telegram which we eventually received came late one night just as I

ever have accepted such a situation.
yet he would always wind up by muttering that no sister of his should
data!” he cried impatiently. “I can’t make bricks without clay.” And
matter away with a wave of his hand when I mentioned it. “Data! data!
hour on end, with knitted brows and an abstracted air, but he swept the
determine. As to Holmes, I observed that he sat frequently for half an
philanthropist or a villain, it was quite beyond my powers to
abnormal, though whether a fad or a plot, or whether the man were a
curious conditions, the light duties, all pointed to something
experience this lonely woman had strayed into. The unusual salary, the
in her direction and wondering what strange side-alley of human
fortnight went by, during which I frequently found my thoughts turning
It was not very long before my friend’s prediction was fulfilled. A

we do not hear from her before many days are past.”
“And she would need to be,” said Holmes gravely. “I am much mistaken if

care of herself.”
stairs, “she seems to be a young lady who is very well able to take
“At least,” said I as we heard her quick, firm steps descending the

way.
words to Holmes she bade us both good-night and bustled off upon her
to-night, and start for Winchester to-morrow.” With a few grateful
mind now. I shall write to Mr. Rucastle at once, sacrifice my poor hair
swept from her face. “I shall go down to Hampshire quite easy in my
“That is enough.” She rose briskly from her chair with the anxiety all

would bring me down to your help.”
could define it,” said he. “But at any time, day or night, a telegram
Holmes shook his head gravely. “It would cease to be a danger if we

“Danger! What danger do you foresee?”

the features. If you should find yourself in doubt or in danger—”
way for some months. There is something distinctly novel about some of
little problem promises to be the most interesting which has come my
“Oh, you may carry that feeling away with you. I assure you that your

felt that you were at the back of me.”
afterwards if I wanted your help. I should feel so much stronger if I
“I thought that if I told you the circumstances you would understand

their pick for £ 40? There must be some strong reason behind.”
uneasy. Why should they give you £ 120 a year, when they could have
“Well, yes, of course the pay is good—too good. That is what makes me

“But the money, Mr. Holmes, the money!”

for a young lady.”
probable one. But in any case it does not seem to be a nice household
“That is a possible solution—in fact, as matters stand, it is the most

every way in order to prevent an outbreak?”
she should be taken to an asylum, and that he humours her fancies in
wife is a lunatic, that he desires to keep the matter quiet for fear
seemed to be a very kind, good-natured man. Is it not possible that his
“Well, there seems to me to be only one possible solution. Mr. Rucastle

some opinion?”
“Ah, I have no data. I cannot tell. Perhaps you have yourself formed

“What is the meaning of it all, Mr. Holmes?”

sister of mine apply for.”
“I confess that it is not the situation which I should like to see a

“But you would not advise me to refuse?”

question,” said Holmes, smiling.
“Well, Miss Hunter, if your mind is made up, that settles the

consideration.”
taking the final step I should like to submit the whole matter to your
is made up that I will accept it. I thought, however, that before
“That is the letter which I have just received, Mr. Holmes, and my mind


    “‘JEPHRO RUCASTLE.’


    dog-cart at Winchester. Let me know your train. Yours faithfully,
    very light. Now do try to come, and I shall meet you with the
    for the loss. Your duties, as far as the child is concerned, are
    point, and I only hope that the increased salary may recompense you
    short interview, but I am afraid that I must remain firm upon this
    especially as I could not help remarking its beauty during our
    inconvenience. As regards your hair, it is no doubt a pity,
    yourself in any manner indicated, that need cause you no
    fit you very well. Then, as to sitting here or there, or amusing
    daughter Alice (now in Philadelphia), which would, I should think,
    the expense of purchasing one, as we have one belonging to my dear
    such a dress indoors in the morning. You need not, however, go to
    of a particular shade of electric blue and would like you to wear
    cause you. They are not very exacting, after all. My wife is fond
    recompense you for any little inconvenience which our fads may
    are willing to give £ 30 a quarter, or £ 120 a year, so as to
    come, for she has been much attracted by my description of you. We
    reconsidered your decision. My wife is very anxious that you should
    address, and I write from here to ask you whether you have
    “‘DEAR MISS HUNTER,—Miss Stoper has very kindly given me your

“‘The Copper Beeches, near Winchester.

it to you:
this letter from the gentleman himself. I have it here and I will read
the agency and inquire whether the place was still open when I received
was sure of it. I had almost overcome my pride so far as to go back to
was inclined to think that I had made a mistake, and by the day after I
wearing it short and perhaps I should be among the number. Next day I
Besides, what use was my hair to me? Many people are improved by
eccentricity. Very few governesses in England are getting £ 100 a year.
extraordinary matters, they were at least ready to pay for their
if these people had strange fads and expected obedience on the most
to ask myself whether I had not done a very foolish thing. After all,
enough in the cupboard, and two or three bills upon the table, I began
“Well, Mr. Holmes, when I got back to my lodgings and found little

was shown out by the page.
Good-day to you, Miss Hunter.’ She struck a gong upon the table, and I
expect us to exert ourselves to find another such opening for you.
excellent offers in this fashion,’ said she sharply. ‘You can hardly
“‘Well, really, it seems rather useless, since you refuse the most

“‘If you please, Miss Stoper.’

“‘Do you desire your name to be kept upon the books?’ she asked.

handsome commission through my refusal.
upon her face that I could not help suspecting that she had lost a
word to either of us, but she glanced at me now with so much annoyance
“The manageress had sat all this while busy with her papers without a

ladies.’
that case, Miss Stoper, I had best inspect a few more of your young
because in other respects you would really have done very nicely. In
“‘Ah, very well; then that quite settles the matter. It is a pity,

“‘No, sir, I really could not,’ I answered firmly.

fancies must be consulted. And so you won’t cut your hair?’
fancy of my wife’s, and ladies’ fancies, you know, madam, ladies’
“‘I am afraid that it is quite essential,’ said he. ‘It is a little

pass over his face as I spoke.
watching me eagerly out of his small eyes, and I could see a shadow
“‘I am afraid that that is quite impossible,’ said I. He had been

this offhand fashion.
It has been considered artistic. I could not dream of sacrificing it in
hair is somewhat luxuriant, and of a rather peculiar tint of chestnut.
“I could hardly believe my ears. As you may observe, Mr. Holmes, my

“‘Or to cut your hair quite short before you come to us?’

“‘Oh, no.’

“‘Or to sit here, or sit there, that would not be offensive to you?’

“‘No,’ said I, considerably astonished at his words.

we might give you, you would not object to our little whim. Heh?’
know—faddy but kind-hearted. If you were asked to wear any dress which
“‘Quite so. In dress now, for example. We are faddy people, you

“‘I should be happy to make myself useful.’

difficulty, heh?’
were such commands as a lady might with propriety obey. You see no
obey any little commands my wife might give, provided always that they
‘Your duty would be, as I am sure your good sense would suggest, to
“‘No, no, not the sole, not the sole, my dear young lady,’ he cried.

child?’
“‘My sole duties, then,’ I asked, ‘are to take charge of a single

the father’s laughter made me think that perhaps he was joking.
“I was a little startled at the nature of the child’s amusement, but

his eyes into his head again.
gone before you could wink!’ He leaned back in his chair and laughed
see him killing cockroaches with a slipper! Smack! smack! smack! Three
“‘One child—one dear little romper just six years old. Oh, if you could

“‘And my duties, sir? I should be glad to know what they would be.’

young lady, and the dearest old country-house.’
the far side of Winchester. It is the most lovely country, my dear
“‘Hampshire. Charming rural place. The Copper Beeches, five miles on

“‘May I ask where you live, sir?’ said I.

quite committed myself.
whole transaction which made me wish to know a little more before I
great convenience, and yet there was something unnatural about the
a man. As I was already in debt to my tradesmen, the advance was a
“It seemed to me that I had never met so fascinating and so thoughtful

and their wardrobe.’
beforehand, so that they may meet any little expenses of their journey
creases of his face, ‘to advance to my young ladies half their salary
until his eyes were just two little shining slits amid the white
“‘It is also my custom,’ said he, smiling in the most pleasant fashion

took out a note.
perhaps the look of incredulity upon my face, opened a pocket-book and
offer seemed almost too good to be true. The gentleman, however, seeing
“You may imagine, Mr. Holmes, that to me, destitute as I was, such an

figures? Your salary with me, madam, would commence at £ 100 a year.’
gentleman ask you to condescend to accept anything under the three
the history of the country. But if you have why, then, how could any
for the rearing of a child who may some day play a considerable part in
lady? There it is in a nutshell. If you have not, you are not fitted
point is, have you or have you not the bearing and deportment of a
“‘Tut, tut!’ he cried. ‘This is all quite beside the question. The

little French, a little German, music, and drawing—’
“‘My accomplishments, sir, may be less than you imagine,’ said I. ‘A

accomplishments?’
could anyone offer so pitiful a sum to a lady with such attractions and
hands out into the air like a man who is in a boiling passion. ‘How
“‘Oh, tut, tut! sweating—rank sweating!’ he cried, throwing his fat

“‘I had £ 4 a month in my last place with Colonel Spence Munro.’

“‘And what salary do you ask?’

“‘Yes, sir.’

“‘As governess?’

“‘Yes, sir.’

“‘You are looking for a situation, miss?’ he asked.

man that it was quite a pleasure to look at him.
together in the most genial fashion. He was such a comfortable-looking
Capital! capital!’ He seemed quite enthusiastic and rubbed his hands
“‘That will do,’ said he; ‘I could not ask for anything better.

Miss Stoper.
As I came in he gave quite a jump in his chair and turned quickly to
glasses on his nose, looking very earnestly at the ladies who entered.
in fold upon fold over his throat sat at her elbow with a pair of
man with a very smiling face and a great heavy chin which rolled down
usual, but I found that Miss Stoper was not alone. A prodigiously stout
“Well, when I called last week I was shown into the little office as

which would suit them.
one, when she consults her ledgers and sees whether she has anything
seeking employment wait in an anteroom, and are then shown in one by
Stoper. She sits in her own little office, and the ladies who are
name of the founder of the business, but it is really managed by Miss
whether anything had turned up which might suit me. Westaway was the
Westaway’s, and there I used to call about once a week in order to see
“There is a well-known agency for governesses in the West End called

wit’s end as to what I should do.
the little money which I had saved began to run short, and I was at my
advertised, and I answered advertisements, but without success. At last
America with him, so that I found myself without a situation. I
appointment at Halifax, in Nova Scotia, and took his children over to
Colonel Spence Munro, but two months ago the colonel received an
“I have been a governess for five years,” said she, “in the family of

together, to listen to her story.
and then composed himself, with his lids drooping and his finger-tips
speech of his new client. He looked her over in his searching fashion,
I could see that Holmes was favourably impressed by the manner and

can to serve you.”
“Pray take a seat, Miss Hunter. I shall be happy to do anything that I

I should do.”
advice, I thought that perhaps you would be kind enough to tell me what
and as I have no parents or relations of any sort from whom I could ask
companion rose to greet her, “but I have had a very strange experience,
“You will excuse my troubling you, I am sure,” said she, as my

way to make in the world.
plover’s egg, and with the brisk manner of a woman who has had her own
plainly but neatly dressed, with a bright, quick face, freckled like a
As he spoke the door opened and a young lady entered the room. She was

here, unless I am much mistaken, is the person in question.”
“Well, let us hope so. But our doubts will very soon be solved, for

case, also.”
at first, developed into a serious investigation. It may be so in this
that the affair of the blue carbuncle, which appeared to be a mere whim
“It may turn out to be of more interest than you think. You remember

“Yes, and I have no doubt that is her ring.”

“It is half-past ten now.”

“Not I.”

“Do you know the young lady?” I asked.


    “VIOLET HUNTER.”


    not inconvenience you. Yours faithfully,
    me as governess. I shall call at half-past ten to-morrow if I do
    should or should not accept a situation which has been offered to
    “DEAR MR. HOLMES,—I am very anxious to consult you as to whether I

thus:
It was dated from Montague Place upon the preceding evening, and ran

across to me.
marks my zero-point, I fancy. Read it!” He tossed a crumpled letter
have touched bottom at last, however. This note I had this morning
giving advice to young ladies from boarding-schools. I think that I
be degenerating into an agency for recovering lost lead pencils and
enterprise and originality. As to my own little practice, it seems to
the great cases are past. Man, or at least criminal man, has lost all
But, indeed, if you are trivial, I cannot blame you, for the days of
his left thumb, care about the finer shades of analysis and deduction!
public, who could hardly tell a weaver by his tooth or a compositor by
“Pshaw, my dear fellow, what do the public, the great unobservant

been novel and of interest.”
“The end may have been so,” I answered, “but the methods I hold to have

I fear that you may have bordered on the trivial.”
which are outside the pale of the law. But in avoiding the sensational,
twisted lip, and the incident of the noble bachelor, were all matters
Miss Mary Sutherland, the problem connected with the man with the
endeavoured to help the King of Bohemia, the singular experience of
treat of crime, in its legal sense, at all. The small matter in which I
have been so kind as to interest yourself in, a fair proportion do not
be open to a charge of sensationalism, for out of these cases which you
puffing at his long pipe and gazing down into the fire, “you can hardly
“At the same time,” he remarked after a pause, during which he had sat

temper to lecture me upon my literary shortcomings.
having apparently given up his search, he had emerged in no very sweet
into the advertisement columns of a succession of papers until at last,
Sherlock Holmes had been silent all the morning, dipping continuously
glimmer of china and metal, for the table had not been cleared yet.
yellow wreaths. Our gas was lit and shone on the white cloth and
opposing windows loomed like dark, shapeless blurs through the heavy
thick fog rolled down between the lines of dun-coloured houses, and the
on either side of a cheery fire in the old room at Baker Street. A
It was a cold morning of the early spring, and we sat after breakfast

should have been a course of lectures into a series of tales.”
than upon the crime that you should dwell. You have degraded what
Crime is common. Logic is rare. Therefore it is upon the logic rather
art, it is because it is an impersonal thing—a thing beyond myself.
wont, my thoughts rather than my words. “If I claim full justice for my
“No, it is not selfishness or conceit,” said he, answering, as was his

singular character.
had more than once observed to be a strong factor in my friend’s
remarked with some coldness, for I was repelled by the egotism which I
“It seems to me that I have done you full justice in the matter,” I

which is really the only notable feature about the thing.”
task of placing upon record that severe reasoning from cause to effect
life into each of your statements instead of confining yourself to the
meditative mood—“you have erred perhaps in attempting to put colour and
to replace his clay when he was in a disputatious rather than a
the tongs and lighting with it the long cherry-wood pipe which was wont
“You have erred, perhaps,” he observed, taking up a glowing cinder with

the charge of sensationalism which has been urged against my records.”
“And yet,” said I, smiling, “I cannot quite hold myself absolved from

province.”
deduction and of logical synthesis which I have made my special
trivial in themselves, but which have given room for those faculties of
which I have figured but rather to those incidents which may have been
not so much to the many _causes célèbres_ and sensational trials in
am bound to say, occasionally to embellish, you have given prominence
records of our cases which you have been good enough to draw up, and, I
Watson, that you have so far grasped this truth that in these little
keenest pleasure is to be derived. It is pleasant to me to observe,
frequently in its least important and lowliest manifestations that the
tossing aside the advertisement sheet of _The Daily Telegraph_, “it is
“To the man who loves art for its own sake,” remarked Sherlock Holmes,

XII. THE ADVENTURE OF THE COPPER BEECHES



punishment.”
whatever her sins are, they will soon receive a more than sufficient
wherever Sir George Burnwell is. It is equally certain, too, that
“I think that we may safely say,” returned Holmes, “that she is

inform me where she is now.”
tell me of poor Mary, it goes to my very heart. Not even your skill can
to apologise to him for the wrong which I have done him. As to what you
exceeded all that I have heard of it. And now I must fly to my dear boy
not find me ungrateful for what you have done. Your skill has indeed
banker, rising. “Sir, I cannot find words to thank you, but you shall
“A day which has saved England from a great public scandal,” said the

after what I may call a really hard day’s work.”
him that all was right, and eventually got to my bed about two o’clock,
got our stones at £ 1000 apiece. Then I looked in upon your son, told
would be no prosecution. Off I set to him, and after much chaffering I
the address of the receiver who had them, on promising him that there
‘I’ve let them go at six hundred for the three!’ I soon managed to get
first signs of grief that he had shown. ‘Why, dash it all!’ said he,
him a price for the stones he held—£ 1000 apiece. That brought out the
Then he became a little more reasonable. I told him that we would give
however, and I clapped a pistol to his head before he could strike.
bluster and took down a life-preserver from the wall. I knew my man,
But when I gave him every particular that had occurred, he tried to
matter. I went and saw him. At first, of course, he denied everything.
knew that so astute a villain would see that our hands were tied in the
for I saw that a prosecution must be avoided to avert scandal, and I
changed my clothes. It was a delicate part which I had to play then,
“Precisely. It was I. I found that I had my man, so I came home and

Holder.
“I saw an ill-dressed vagabond in the lane yesterday evening,” said Mr.

tracks.”
journeyed down to Streatham and saw that they exactly fitted the
made all sure by buying a pair of his cast-off shoes. With these I
head the night before, and, finally, at the expense of six shillings,
an acquaintance with his valet, learned that his master had cut his
went in the shape of a loafer to Sir George’s house, managed to pick up
“Well, your own good sense will suggest what measures I took next. I

without compromising his own family.
flatter himself that he was safe, for the lad could not say a word
Even though he knew that Arthur had discovered him, he might still
must have been he who wore those boots and retained the missing gems.
heard of him before as being a man of evil reputation among women. It
was a very limited one. But among them was Sir George Burnwell. I had
you? I knew that you went out little, and that your circle of friends
who else could outweigh the love and gratitude which she must feel to
“And who could it be who was her confederate? A lover evidently, for

conjecture became a certainty.
window, and how she had fainted on seeing the coronet again, my
was a disgraceful one. When I remembered that you had seen her at that
explanation why he should retain her secret—the more so as the secret
reason. As he loved his cousin, however, there was an excellent
allow himself to be accused in their place? There could be no possible
your niece and the maids. But if it were the maids, why should your son
that it was not you who had brought it down, so there only remained
whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth. Now, I knew
“It is an old maxim of mine that when you have excluded the impossible,

who was it brought him the coronet?
opponent. So far I was clear. The question now was, who was the man and
returned with the prize, but had left a fragment in the grasp of his
causing injuries which neither alone could have effected. He had
with him; they had each tugged at the coronet, their united strength
had been overseen by your son; he had pursued the thief; had struggled
had waited outside the window; someone had brought the gems; the deed
beginning to be able to form an opinion as to what had occurred. A man
instep where the wet foot had been placed in coming in. I was then
that someone had passed out. I could distinguish the outline of an
and framework of the hall window with my lens, and I could at once see
“On entering the house, however, I examined, as you remember, the sill

so there was an end to that clue.
highroad at the other end, I found that the pavement had been cleared,
of blood showed that it was he who had been hurt. When he came to the
mistaken. Boots had then run down the lane, and another little smudge
where a few drops of blood had fallen, to show me that I was not
the snow was cut up as though there had been a struggle, and, finally,
yards or more down the lane. I saw where Boots had faced round, where
away while waiting. Then I walked to the other end, which was a hundred
found they led to the hall window, where Boots had worn all the snow
was obvious that he had passed after the other. I followed them up and
as his tread was marked in places over the depression of the boot, it
son. The first had walked both ways, but the other had run swiftly, and
at once convinced from what you had told me that the latter was your
line which I saw with delight belonged to a man with naked feet. I was
“There was a double line of tracks of a booted man, and a second double

me.
lane a very long and complex story was written in the snow in front of
tracks, which I took to be the police; but when I got into the stable
passed round the garden without seeing anything more than random
whom you had already spoken to me, and inquiry showed it was so. I
thought at the time that this might be the maid and her sweetheart, of
marks, while Wooden-leg had waited a little, and then had gone away. I
back swiftly to the door, as was shown by the deep toe and light heel
could even tell that they had been disturbed, for the woman had run
whose round impressions on one side showed that he had a wooden leg. I
far side of the kitchen door, a woman had stood and talked with a man,
trampled down and indistinguishable. Just beyond it, however, at the
impressions. I passed along the tradesmen’s path, but found it all
before, and also that there had been a strong frost to preserve
which might help me. I knew that none had fallen since the evening
carefully round it to observe if there were any traces in the snow
“When I arrived at the house,” continued Holmes, “I at once went very

cruelly I have misjudged him!”
to see if the missing piece were at the scene of the struggle. How
asking to be allowed to go out for five minutes! The dear fellow wanted
cried Mr. Holder. “Oh, my God! what a blind fool I have been! And his
“And that was why she shrieked and fainted when she saw the coronet,”

view, however, and preserved her secret.”
little enough consideration at his hands. He took the more chivalrous
true state of affairs without betraying one who certainly deserved
felt that he had deserved your warmest thanks. He could not explain the
“You then roused his anger by calling him names at a moment when he

“Is it possible?” gasped the banker.

endeavouring to straighten it when you appeared upon the scene.”
just observed that the coronet had been twisted in the struggle and was
hands, rushed back, closed the window, ascended to your room, and had
suddenly snapped, and your son, finding that he had the coronet in his
your son struck Sir George and cut him over the eye. Then something
side of the coronet, and his opponent at the other. In the scuffle,
him, and there was a struggle between them, your lad tugging at one
moonlight. Sir George Burnwell tried to get away, but Arthur caught
and ran down the lane, where he could see a dark figure in the
he was, in his bare feet, opened the window, sprang out into the snow,
and how all-important it was to set it right. He rushed down, just as
was gone he realised how crushing a misfortune this would be for you,
horrible exposure of the woman whom he loved. But the instant that she
“As long as she was on the scene he could not take any action without a

quite close to where he stood hid behind the curtain.
gloom, and then closing it once more hurry back to her room, passing
stealthily open the window, hand out the coronet to someone in the
whence he could see what passed in the hall beneath. He saw her
with horror, ran along and slipped behind the curtain near your door,
coronet in her hands. She passed down the stairs, and he, thrilling
light of the passage-lamp your son saw that she carried the precious
strange affair. Presently she emerged from the room again, and in the
clothes and waited there in the dark to see what would come of this
dressing-room. Petrified with astonishment, the lad slipped on some
stealthily along the passage until she disappeared into your
and, looking out, was surprised to see his cousin walking very
middle of the night he heard a soft tread pass his door, so he rose
slept badly on account of his uneasiness about his club debts. In the
“Your boy, Arthur, went to bed after his interview with you but he

all perfectly true.
one of the servants’ escapade with her wooden-legged lover, which was
downstairs, on which she closed the window rapidly and told you about
She had hardly listened to his instructions when she saw you coming
extinguishes all other loves, and I think that she must have been one.
she loved you, but there are women in whom the love of a lover
kindled at the news, and he bent her to his will. I have no doubt that
stood there. She told him of the coronet. His wicked lust for gold
lane. His footmarks had pressed right through the snow, so long had he
and talked to her lover through the window which leads into the stable
niece, when you had, as she thought, gone to your room, slipped down
“I will tell you, then, what occurred in your house last night. Your

face.
“I cannot, and I will not, believe it!” cried the banker with an ashen

seeing him nearly every evening.”
he said, but at least she became his tool and was in the habit of
herself that she alone had touched his heart. The devil knows best what
vows to her, as he had done to a hundred before her, she flattered
conscience. Your niece knew nothing of such men. When he breathed his
ruined gambler, an absolutely desperate villain, a man without heart or
your family circle. He is one of the most dangerous men in England—a
your son knew the true character of this man when you admitted him into
“It is unfortunately more than possible; it is certain. Neither you nor

“My Mary? Impossible!”

Burnwell and your niece Mary. They have now fled together.”
for you to hear: there has been an understanding between Sir George
let me say to you, first, that which it is hardest for me to say and
“I will do so, and I will show you the steps by which I reached it. And

“For Heaven’s sake, tell me, then, what is this extraordinary mystery!”

morning, however, may open his lips.”
few details which were not yet quite clear to me. Your news of this
him, on which he had to confess that I was right and to add the very
with him, and finding that he would not tell me the story, I told it to
“He knows it already. When I had cleared it all up I had an interview

that the truth is known.”
“You are sure of it! Then let us hurry to him at once to let him know

“I told you yesterday, and I repeat to-day, that it was not.”

“Then it was not Arthur who took them?”

proud to see my own son do, should I ever chance to have one.”
lad, your son, who has carried himself in this matter as I should be
“No, the debt is not to me. You owe a very humble apology to that noble

“Owe!” He caught up a pen. “Name the sum, and I will pay it.”

rather sternly.
“There is one other thing you owe, Mr. Holder,” said Sherlock Holmes

hugged his recovered gems to his bosom.
The reaction of joy was as passionate as his grief had been, and he

“You have it!” he gasped. “I am saved! I am saved!”

With a shriek of joy our client clutched it up.

gems in it, and threw it down upon the table.
over to his desk, took out a little triangular piece of gold with three
With a dazed face the banker made out the required check. Holmes walked

pen. Better make it out for £ 4000.”
there is a little reward, I fancy. Have you your cheque-book? Here is a
“That would be unnecessary. Three thousand will cover the matter. And

“I would pay ten.”

“You would not think £ 1000 apiece an excessive sum for them?”

something! Where are the gems?”
“Ha! You say so! You have heard something, Mr. Holmes; you have learned

I trust, Mr. Holder, that you are nearing the end of your troubles.”
“No, no, nothing of the kind. It is perhaps the best possible solution.

to suicide?”
“What could she mean by that note, Mr. Holmes? Do you think it points


    “‘MARY.’


    your loving,
    labour and an ill-service to me. In life or in death, I am ever
    and, above all, do not search for me, for it will be fruitless
    forever. Do not worry about my future, for that is provided for;
    again be happy under your roof, and I feel that I must leave you
    never have occurred. I cannot, with this thought in my mind, ever
    and that if I had acted differently this terrible misfortune might
    “‘MY DEAREST UNCLE,—I feel that I have brought trouble upon you,

so. It is to that remark that she refers in this note:
might have been well with him. Perhaps it was thoughtless of me to say
night, in sorrow and not in anger, that if she had married my boy all
and a note for me lay upon the hall table. I had said to her last
“Yes. Her bed this morning had not been slept in, her room was empty,

“Deserted you?”

me.”
comes close upon the heels of another. My niece, Mary, has deserted
the world. Now I am left to a lonely and dishonoured age. One sorrow
“Only two days ago I was a happy and prosperous man, without a care in
“I do not know what I have done to be so severely tried,” said he.

him.
and he dropped heavily into the armchair which I pushed forward for
which was even more painful than his violence of the morning before,
to me at least a shade whiter. He entered with a weariness and lethargy
and massive mould, was now pinched and fallen in, while his hair seemed
which had come over him, for his face which was naturally of a broad
It was, indeed, our friend the financier. I was shocked by the change

that were he. I thought I heard a ring.”
“Why, it is after nine now,” I answered. “I should not be surprised if

remember that our client has rather an early appointment this morning.”
“You will excuse my beginning without you, Watson,” said he, “but you

as possible.
cup of coffee in one hand and the paper in the other, as fresh and trim
but when I came down to breakfast in the morning there he was with a
lateness caused me no surprise. I do not know at what hour he came in,
days and nights on end when he was hot upon a scent, so that his
retired to my room. It was no uncommon thing for him to be away for
I waited until midnight, but there was no sign of his return, so I

he was off once more upon his congenial hunt.
few minutes later I heard the slam of the hall door, which told me that
a touch of colour upon his sallow cheeks. He hastened upstairs, and a
than his words alone would imply. His eyes twinkled, and there was even
I could see by his manner that he had stronger reasons for satisfaction

clothes off and return to my highly respectable self.”
However, I must not sit gossiping here, but must get these disreputable
little problem, and I would not have missed it for a good deal.
I saw you last, but I did not call at the house. It is a very sweet
“Oh, so so. Nothing to complain of. I have been out to Streatham since

“How are you getting on?”

get back. Don’t wait up for me in case I should be late.”
“Oh, to the other side of the West End. It may be some time before I

“Where to?”

“I only looked in as I passed,” said he. “I am going right on.”

down into a corner and helped himself to a cup of tea.
spirits, swinging an old elastic-sided boot in his hand. He chucked it
I had just finished my tea when he returned, evidently in excellent

his expedition.
bread, and thrusting this rude meal into his pocket he started off upon
the joint upon the sideboard, sandwiched it between two rounds of
hope that I may be back in a few hours.” He cut a slice of beef from
be following a will-o’-the-wisp, but I shall soon know which it is. I
fear that it won’t do. I may be on the trail in this matter, or I may
the fireplace. “I only wish that you could come with me, Watson, but I
“I think that this should do,” said he, glancing into the glass above

his worn boots, he was a perfect sample of the class.
With his collar turned up, his shiny, seedy coat, his red cravat, and
chamber and was down again in a few minutes dressed as a common loafer.
when we found ourselves in our rooms once more. He hurried to his
topic, until at last I gave it over in despair. It was not yet three
to sound him upon the point, but he always glided away to some other
dimly imagine. Several times during our homeward journey I endeavoured
case, although what his conclusions were was more than I could even
It was obvious to me that my companion’s mind was now made up about the

before evening.”
Good-bye; it is just possible that I may have to come over here again
“Very good. I shall look into the matter between this and then.

“I would give my fortune to have them back.”

the sum I may draw.”
provided only that I get back the gems, and that you place no limit on
clearer. I understand that you give me _carte blanche_ to act for you,
between nine and ten I shall be happy to do what I can to make it
“If you can call upon me at my Baker Street rooms to-morrow morning

my house last night?”
“Then, for God’s sake, what was this dark business which was acted in

“My opinion is in no way altered.”

“And my son? You give me hopes?”
The banker wrung his hands. “I shall never see them again!” he cried.

“I cannot tell.”

“But the gems, Mr. Holmes. Where are they?”

said he; “I can serve you best by returning to my rooms.”
“I think that I have seen now all that there is to see, Mr. Holder,”

and his features as inscrutable as ever.
or more he was at work, returning at last with his feet heavy with snow
unnecessary footmarks might make his task more difficult. For an hour
He went alone, at his own request, for he explained that any

shall now continue my investigations outside.”
succeed in clearing the matter up. With your permission, Mr. Holder, I
during this inquiry, and it will be entirely our own fault if we do not
“Thank you. We have certainly been favoured with extraordinary luck

“He had nothing on save only his trousers and shirt.”

“Your son had no shoes or slippers on when you saw him?”

“I confess that I still share my uncle’s perplexity.”

Holder?”
“But perhaps it may grow lighter as we go. What do you think, Miss

“I do not know what to think. It is all dark to me.”

of your bed and that you heard nothing of it?”
pistol shot. Do you tell me that all this happened within a few yards
happen if I did break it, Mr. Holder? There would be a noise like a
break it. An ordinary man could not do it. Now, what do you think would
exceptionally strong in the fingers, it would take me all my time to
result. “I feel it give a little,” said he; “but, though I am
“Then I will.” Holmes suddenly bent his strength upon it, but without

The banker recoiled in horror. “I should not dream of trying,” said he.

break it off.”
to that which has been so unfortunately lost. Might I beg that you will
“Now, Mr. Holder,” said Holmes, “here is the corner which corresponds

gems had been torn away.
side of the coronet was a cracked edge, where a corner holding three
and the thirty-six stones were the finest that I have ever seen. At one
upon the table. It was a magnificent specimen of the jeweller’s art,
look at it.” He opened the case, and taking out the diadem he laid it
wake you. This case, I presume, contains the coronet. We must have a
“It is a noiseless lock,” said he. “It is no wonder that it did not

Sherlock Holmes took it up and opened the bureau.

“That is it on the dressing-table.”

“Have you it here?”

lumber-room.”
“That which my son himself indicated—that of the cupboard of the

“Which key was used to open it?” he asked.

bureau first and looked hard at the lock.
a grey carpet, a large bureau, and a long mirror. Holmes went to the
The banker’s dressing-room was a plainly furnished little chamber, with

powerful magnifying lens. “Now we shall go upstairs,” said he at last.
opened and made a very careful examination of the sill with his
large one which looked from the hall onto the stable lane. This he
He walked swiftly round from one to the other, pausing only at the

take a look at the lower windows before I go up.”
wish to go over the outside of the house again. Perhaps I had better
“I should be very glad now to go upstairs,” said he. “I shall probably

face.
She smiled, but there was no answering smile in Holmes’ thin, eager
eyes. “Why, you are like a magician,” said she. “How do you know that?”
Something like fear sprang up in the young lady’s expressive black

“And he is a man with a wooden leg?”

“Yes, he did.”

farther up the path than is necessary to reach the door?”
“He stood,” said Holmes, “to the left of the door—that is to say,

name is Francis Prosper.”
“Oh, yes! he is the greengrocer who brings our vegetables round. His

“Do you know him?”

her slipping in. I saw the man, too, in the gloom.”
“Yes; when I went to see if the door was fastened for the night I met

Miss Holder. You saw her return by the kitchen door, I presume?”
“Wait a little, Mr. Holder. We must come back to that. About this girl,

in his hands?”
impatiently, “when I have told you that I saw Arthur with the coronet
“But what is the good of all these vague theories,” cried the banker

and that the two may have planned the robbery.”
“I see. You infer that she may have gone out to tell her sweetheart,

have heard uncle’s remarks about the coronet.”
“Yes, and she was the girl who waited in the drawing-room, and who may

your uncle last night that she had been out to see him?”
“You have a maid who has a sweetheart? I think that you remarked to

“Yes.”

“Were they all fastened this morning?”

“Yes.”

the windows?”
“You shut up the windows and doors the night before. Did you fasten all

I came down.”
“Nothing, until my uncle here began to speak loudly. I heard that, and

“You heard nothing yourself last night?”

“Pray do, sir, if it may help to clear this horrible affair up.”

Might I ask you a question or two?”
shoes. “I believe I have the honour of addressing Miss Mary Holder.
it,” returned Holmes, going back to the mat to knock the snow from his
“I fully share your opinion, and I trust, with you, that we may prove

Arthur is innocent of this crime.”
succeed in proving, what I feel sure is the truth, that my cousin
find there? Ah! this, I suppose, is he. I trust, sir, that you will
“The stable lane?” She raised her dark eyebrows. “What can he hope to

stable lane now.”
“No, his friend. He wished us to leave him alone. He is round in the

“This gentleman?” she asked, facing round to me.

to inquire more deeply into it.”
from hushing the thing up, I have brought a gentleman down from London
affection for Arthur blinds you as to the awful consequences to me. Far
“I shall never let it drop until the gems are found—never, Mary! Your

It is so dreadful to think of our dear Arthur in prison!”
word for it that he is innocent. Let the matter drop and say no more.
“Oh, but he had only picked it up to look at it. Oh, do, do take my

coronet in his hand?”
“How could I help suspecting him, when I actually saw him with the

him.”
“Who knows? Perhaps because he was so angry that you should suspect

“Why is he silent, then, if he is innocent?”

having acted so harshly.”
are. I know that he has done no harm and that you will be sorry for
“But I am so sure that he is innocent. You know what woman’s instincts

“No, no, my girl, the matter must be probed to the bottom.”

dad?” she asked.
“You have given orders that Arthur should be liberated, have you not,

sweet womanly caress.
went straight to her uncle and passed her hand over his head with a
with immense capacity for self-restraint. Disregarding my presence, she
more striking in her as she was evidently a woman of strong character,
sense of grief than the banker had done in the morning, and it was the
As she swept silently into the room she impressed me with a greater
Her lips, too, were bloodless, but her eyes were flushed with crying.
not think that I have ever seen such deadly paleness in a woman’s face.
which seemed the darker against the absolute pallor of her skin. I do
She was rather above the middle height, slim, with dark hair and eyes,
sitting there in silence when the door opened and a young lady came in.
the dining-room and waited by the fire until he should return. We were
into the stable lane. So long was he that Mr. Holder and I went into
front, down the tradesmen’s path, and so round by the garden behind
standing at the door and walked slowly all round the house, across the
all, being a public, though little used, thoroughfare. Holmes left us
lane which led to the stables, and was not itself within the grounds at
kitchen door, and forming the tradesmen’s entrance. On the left ran a
a narrow path between two neat hedges stretching from the road to the
entrance. On the right side was a small wooden thicket, which led into
stretched down in front to two large iron gates which closed the
little from the road. A double carriage-sweep, with a snow-clad lawn,
Fairbank was a good-sized square house of white stone, standing back a

of the great financier.
journey and a shorter walk brought us to Fairbank, the modest residence
desultory chat with me over his business affairs. A short railway
hope which had been presented to him, and he even broke into a
Our client appeared to have taken fresh heart at the little glimpse of
breast and his hat drawn over his eyes, sunk in the deepest thought.
whole way out to the southern suburb, but sat with his chin upon his
dissatisfied with the accepted explanation. He hardly spoke a word the
felt that there must be some grounds for hope as long as he was
unhappy father, but still I had such faith in Holmes’ judgment that I
of the banker’s son appeared to me to be as obvious as it did to his
stirred by the story to which we had listened. I confess that the guilt
I was eager enough to do, for my curiosity and sympathy were deeply
My friend insisted upon my accompanying them in their expedition, which

an hour to glancing a little more closely into details.”
please, Mr. Holder, we will set off for Streatham together, and devote
“It is our task to find that out,” replied Holmes; “so now, if you

“If his motives were innocent, why does he not explain them?”
“But what other is there?” cried the banker with a gesture of despair.

such a theory tenable?”
himself to the greatest danger of being discovered. I ask you now, is
returned with the other thirty-six into the room in which he exposed
thirty-nine, with such skill that nobody can find them, and then
went off to some other place, concealed three gems out of the
took out your coronet, broke off by main force a small portion of it,
bed, went, at great risk, to your dressing-room, opened your bureau,
involved by your theory. You suppose that your son came down from his
simple case; to me it seems exceedingly complex. Consider what is
police were at first inclined to think? It appeared to you to be a
this matter really strikes very much deeper than either you or the
“Now, my dear sir,” said Holmes, “is it not obvious to you now that

already been minutely examined.”
“Yes, they have shown extraordinary energy. The whole garden has

“Have they thought of looking outside the house?”

hope of finding them.”
“They are still sounding the planking and probing the furniture in the

these gems?”
to wake a household. What did they say, then, of the disappearance of
“A likely story! As if a man bent on felony would slam his door so as

bedroom door.”
“They considered that it might be caused by Arthur’s closing his

awoke you from your sleep?”
points about the case. What did the police think of the noise which
silence appears to me to cut both ways. There are several singular
“Precisely. And if it were guilty, why did he not invent a lie? His

were innocent, why did he not say so?”
is too heavy a task. What was he doing there at all? If his purpose
“God bless you! You are doing what you can for him and for me. But it

it?”
“Do you not think, then, that he might have been trying to straighten

“Yes, it was twisted.”

coronet at all injured?”
“I hardly consider that a conclusive proof. Was the remainder of the

his hands.”
“How can we have when I saw him with my own eyes with the coronet in

“You have neither of you any doubt as to your son’s guilt?”

“Terrible! She is even more affected than I.”

also.”
“This matter, from what you say, seems to have been a shock to her

four-and-twenty.”
“She is of a quiet nature. Besides, she is not so very young. She is

“That is unusual in a young girl.”

“Arthur does. Mary and I stay at home. We neither of us care for it.”

“Do you go out much in society?”

else, I think.”
Arthur’s. Sir George Burnwell has been several times lately. No one
“None save my partner with his family and an occasional friend of

“Do you receive much company?” he asked.

and his eyes fixed upon the fire.
Sherlock Holmes sat silent for some few minutes, with his brows knitted

droning to himself like a child whose grief has got beyond words.
He put a hand on either side of his head and rocked himself to and fro,

honour, my gems, and my son in one night. Oh, what shall I do!”
offered a reward of £ 1000. My God, what shall I do! I have lost my
it. You may go to any expense which you think necessary. I have already
police have openly confessed that they can at present make nothing of
to you to implore you to use your skill in unravelling the matter. The
I, after going through all the police formalities, have hurried round
persuasions and our threats. This morning he was removed to a cell, and
be found, nor would the wretched boy open his mouth for all our
he could possibly have concealed the gems; but no trace of them could
of his person but of his room and of every portion of the house where
inspector and gave him into custody. A search was made at once not only
of mine to influence him. There was but one way for it. I called in the
away from me with a sneer. I saw that he was too hardened for any words
“‘Keep your forgiveness for those who ask for it,’ he answered, turning

beryls are, all shall be forgiven and forgotten.’
but make such reparation as is in your power, by telling us where the
the act, and no confession could make your guilt more heinous. If you
“‘You may as well face the matter,’ said I; ‘you have been caught in

stones.
all if he would but tell me what he had done with the three missing
to raise a scandal which would convulse the nation. He might avert it
of one who was far greater than I was at stake; and that he threatened
was placed, I implored him to remember that not only my honour but that
stolen,’ said I. And then, realising the dreadful position in which I
“‘That you may get away, or perhaps that you may conceal what you have

five minutes.’
be to your advantage as well as mine if I might leave the house for
“‘At least,’ said he, ‘you will not have me arrested at once. It would

everything.
national property. I was determined that the law should have its way in
matter, but had become a public one, since the ruined coronet was
charge him with theft. I answered that it had ceased to be a private
sullenly with his arms folded, asked me whether it was my intention to
inspector and a constable entered the house, Arthur, who had stood
police and put the investigation into their hands at once. When the
scream, fell down senseless on the ground. I sent the housemaid for the
the coronet and of Arthur’s face, she read the whole story and, with a
my anger. Mary was the first to rush into my room, and, at the sight of
“By this time the whole house was astir, for I had raised my voice in

police, let the police find what they can.’
should not have thought was in his nature. ‘If you choose to call the
“‘You shall learn nothing from me,’ said he with a passion such as I

grief and rage. ‘I shall have this matter probed to the bottom.’
“‘You shall leave it in the hands of the police!’ I cried half-mad with

make my own way in the world.’
have chosen to insult me. I will leave your house in the morning and
longer. I shall not say another word about this business, since you
“‘You have called me names enough,’ said he, ‘I will not stand it any

piece?’
a liar as well as a thief? Did I not see you trying to tear off another
“‘There are three missing. And you know where they are. Must I call you

“‘There are none missing. There cannot be any missing,’ said he.

“‘Yes, thief!’ I roared, shaking him by the shoulder.

“‘Stolen!’ he cried.

which you have stolen?’
destroyed it! You have dishonoured me forever! Where are the jewels
“‘You blackguard!’ I shouted, beside myself with rage. ‘You have

gold corners, with three of the beryls in it, was missing.
turned as pale as death. I snatched it up and examined it. One of the
it with all his strength. At my cry he dropped it from his grasp and
the coronet in his hands. He appeared to be wrenching at it, or bending
only in his shirt and trousers, was standing beside the light, holding
“The gas was half up, as I had left it, and my unhappy boy, dressed

coronet?’
“‘Arthur!’ I screamed, ‘you villain! you thief! How dare you touch that

door.
palpitating with fear, and peeped round the corner of my dressing-room
footsteps moving softly in the next room. I slipped out of bed, all
my ears. Suddenly, to my horror, there was a distinct sound of
though a window had gently closed somewhere. I lay listening with all
ceased ere I was wide awake, but it had left an impression behind it as
the morning, then, I was awakened by some sound in the house. It had
mind tended, no doubt, to make me even less so than usual. About two in
particularly so. I am not a very heavy sleeper, and the anxiety in my
“I come to a part of my story now in which I should wish to be

“On the contrary, your statement is singularly lucid.”

point which I do not make clear.”
any bearing upon the case, but I beg that you will question me upon any
“I am endeavouring to tell you everything, Mr. Holmes, which may have

where I was soon asleep.
“‘Then, good-night.’ I kissed her and went up to my bedroom again,

“‘Quite sure, dad.’

you sure that everything is fastened?’
“‘You must speak to her in the morning, or I will if you prefer it. Are

hardly safe and should be stopped.’
only been to the side gate to see someone, but I think that it is
“‘She came in just now by the back door. I have no doubt that she has

“‘Certainly not.’

you give Lucy, the maid, leave to go out to-night?’
“‘Tell me, dad,’ said she, looking, I thought, a little disturbed, ‘did

fastened as I approached.
I saw Mary herself at the side window of the hall, which she closed and
thought it well to perform myself that night. As I came down the stairs
that all was secure—a duty which I usually leave to Mary but which I
safe, and locked it again. Then I started to go round the house to see
“When he was gone I unlocked my bureau, made sure that my treasure was

the room without another word.
shall not have a farthing from me,’ I cried, on which he bowed and left
“I was very angry, for this was the third demand during the month. ‘You

if you will not let me have it, then I must try other means.’
‘I could not bear the disgrace. I must raise the money in some way, and
“‘Yes, but you would not have me leave it a dishonoured man,’ said he.

“‘And a very good thing, too!’ I cried.

else I can never show my face inside the club again.’
“‘You have been very kind,’ said he, ‘but I must have this money, or

you in money matters.’
“‘No, I cannot!’ I answered sharply. ‘I have been far too generous with

have £ 200?’
“‘Look here, dad,’ said he with his eyes cast down, ‘can you let me

grave face.
he said. He followed me to my room, however, that night with a very
“He often had a wild way of talking, so that I thought little of what

opened it myself with the key of the box-room cupboard.’
“‘Oh, any old key will fit that bureau. When I was a youngster I have

“‘It is locked up,’ I answered.

night.’ said he.
“‘Well, I hope to goodness the house won’t be burgled during the

“‘In my own bureau.’

“‘Where have you put it?’ asked Arthur.

thought it better not to disturb it.
were much interested and wished to see the famous coronet, but I
the room; but I cannot swear that the door was closed. Mary and Arthur
client. Lucy Parr, who had brought in the coffee, had, I am sure, left
treasure which we had under our roof, suppressing only the name of my
dinner, I told Arthur and Mary my experience, and of the precious
“When we were taking coffee in the drawing-room that night after

shall continue with my miserable story.
“Now, Mr. Holmes, you know the people who live under my roof, and I

changed his whole life; but now, alas! it is too late—forever too late!
right path it would have been she, and that his marriage might have
has refused him. I think that if anyone could have drawn him into the
asked her to marry him, for he loves her devotedly, but each time she
only one matter has she ever gone against my wishes. Twice my boy has
She is my right hand. I do not know what I could do without her. In
housekeeper, yet as tender and quiet and gentle as a woman could be.
a sunbeam in my house—sweet, loving, beautiful, a wonderful manager and
adopted her, and have looked upon her ever since as my daughter. She is
my brother died five years ago and left her alone in the world I
“And now there is only she to be described. She is my niece; but when

into character.
and so, too, thinks my little Mary, who has a woman’s quick insight
his eyes that he is one who should be deeply distrusted. So I think,
convinced from his cynical speech and the look which I have caught in
of him in cold blood, far away from the glamour of his presence, I am
brilliant talker, and a man of great personal beauty. Yet when I think
to his finger-tips, one who had been everywhere, seen everything, a
fascination of his manner. He is older than Arthur, a man of the world
my house, and I have found myself that I could hardly resist the
should gain an influence over him, for he has frequently brought him to
“And, indeed, I could not wonder that such a man as Sir George Burnwell

to draw him back again.
each time the influence of his friend, Sir George Burnwell, was enough
once to break away from the dangerous company which he was keeping, but
allowance, that he might settle his debts of honour. He tried more than
and again to come to me and implore me to give him an advance upon his
heavily at cards and to squander money on the turf, until he had again
number of men with long purses and expensive habits. He learned to play
and there, having charming manners, he was soon the intimate of a
of money. When he was young he became a member of an aristocratic club,
to speak the truth, I could not trust him in the handling of large sums
business, but he was not of a business turn. He was wild, wayward, and,
“It was naturally my intention that he should succeed me in my

but I meant it for the best.
Perhaps it would have been better for both of us had I been sterner,
fade even for a moment from his face. I have never denied him a wish.
I felt that he was all I had to love. I could not bear to see the smile
me that I have spoiled him. Very likely I have. When my dear wife died
disappointment. I have no doubt that I am myself to blame. People tell
Arthur. He has been a disappointment to me, Mr. Holmes—a grievous
not take me long to describe it. I am a widower and have an only son,
“So much for the servants. My family itself is so small that it will

believe her to be a thoroughly good girl in every way.
the place. That is the only drawback which we have found to her, but we
pretty girl and has attracted admirers who have occasionally hung about
character, however, and has always given me satisfaction. She is a very
has only been in my service a few months. She came with an excellent
is quite above suspicion. Another, Lucy Parr, the second waiting-maid,
who have been with me a number of years and whose absolute reliability
the house, and may be set aside altogether. I have three maid-servants
thoroughly understand the situation. My groom and my page sleep out of
“And now a word as to my household, Mr. Holmes, for I wish you to

dressing-room.
until I had taken it upstairs and locked it in the bureau of my
at Streatham, carrying the jewel with me. I did not breathe freely
my reach. With this intention, I called a cab and drove out to my house
backward and forward with me, so that it might never be really out of
therefore, that for the next few days I would always carry the case
would be the position in which I should find myself! I determined,
forced before now, and why should not mine be? If so, how terrible
precious a thing in the office behind me. Bankers’ safes had been
“When evening came I felt that it would be an imprudence to leave so

more to my work.
the matter now, so I locked it up in my private safe and turned once
ever consented to take charge of it. However, it was too late to alter
ensue if any misfortune should occur to it. I already regretted having
doubt that, as it was a national possession, a horrible scandal would
the immense responsibility which it entailed upon me. There could be no
the table in front of me, I could not but think with some misgivings of
When I was alone once more, however, with the precious case lying upon
calling for my cashier, I ordered him to pay over fifty £ 1000 notes.
“Seeing that my client was anxious to leave, I said no more but,

I shall call for it in person on Monday morning.’
replace them. I leave it with you, however, with every confidence, and
beryls in the world to match these, and it would be impossible to
would be almost as serious as its complete loss, for there are no
scandal would be caused if any harm were to befall it. Any injury to it
every possible precaution because I need not say that a great public
gossip upon the matter but, above all, to preserve this coronet with
of you. I rely upon you not only to be discreet and to refrain from all
the confidence which I have in you, founded upon all that I have heard
“‘You understand, Mr. Holder, that I am giving you a strong proof of

“‘Ample.’

of form. Is the security sufficient?’
that I should be able in four days to reclaim it. It is a pure matter
that. I should not dream of doing so were it not absolutely certain
“‘The propriety of my leaving it. You may set your mind at rest about

“‘Not at all. I only doubt—’

“‘You doubt its value?’ he asked.

from it to my illustrious client.
“I took the precious case into my hands and looked in some perplexity

prepared to leave it with you as my security.’
put the worth of the coronet at double the sum which I have asked. I am
price of the gold chasing is incalculable. The lowest estimate would
had named. ‘There are thirty-nine enormous beryls,’ said he, ‘and the
flesh-coloured velvet, lay the magnificent piece of jewellery which he
“‘Precisely.’ He opened the case, and there, imbedded in soft,

“‘One of the most precious public possessions of the empire,’ said I.

doubtless heard of the Beryl Coronet?’
black morocco case which he had laid beside his chair. ‘You have
“‘I should much prefer to have it so,’ said he, raising up a square,

even in your case, every businesslike precaution should be taken.’
name of the firm, then in justice to my partner I must insist that,
more than it could bear. If, on the other hand, I am to do it in the
private purse,’ said I, ‘were it not that the strain would be rather
“‘I should be happy to advance it without further parley from my own

be paid at once.’
right to charge. But it is very essential to me that the money should
certainly repay what you advance, with whatever interest you think it
“‘Next Monday I have a large sum due to me, and I shall then most

“‘For how long, may I ask, do you want this sum?’ I asked.

understand that it is unwise to place one’s self under obligations.’
and to carry out that business myself. In my position you can readily
over from my friends, but I much prefer to make it a matter of business
50,000 at once. I could, of course, borrow so trifling a sum ten times
“‘It is absolutely essential to me,’ said he, ‘that I should have £

“‘The firm does so when the security is good.’ I answered.

of advancing money.’
“‘Mr. Holder,’ said he, ‘I have been informed that you are in the habit

of a man who wishes to hurry quickly through a disagreeable task.
entered, to say so, but he plunged at once into business with the air
in England. I was overwhelmed by the honour and attempted, when he
word all over the earth—one of the highest, noblest, most exalted names
had better say no more than that it was a name which is a household
name, for it was that of none other than—well, perhaps even to you I
was brought in to me by one of the clerks. I started when I saw the
“Yesterday morning I was seated in my office at the bank when a card

the security of their pictures, libraries, or plate.
there are many noble families to whom we have advanced large sums upon
have done a good deal in this direction during the last few years, and
money is in the shape of loans, where the security is unimpeachable. We
number of our depositors. One of our most lucrative means of laying out
investments for our funds as upon our increasing our connection and the
business as much depends upon our being able to find remunerative
“It is, of course, well known to you that in a successful banking

shortly and yet as clearly as I can.
exercise. I feel better now, and I will put the facts before you as
why I was so out of breath, for I am a man who takes very little
from there on foot, for the cabs go slowly through this snow. That is
co-operation. I came to Baker Street by the Underground and hurried
when the police inspector suggested that I should secure your
“I feel that time is of value,” said he; “that is why I hastened here

with another effort he braced himself to tell his story.
of London to this most pitiable pass? We waited, all curiosity, until
What could have happened, then, to bring one of the foremost citizens
in the second largest private banking concern in the City of London.
The name was indeed well known to us as belonging to the senior partner

Threadneedle Street.”
am Alexander Holder, of the banking firm of Holder & Stevenson, of
“My name,” answered our visitor, “is probably familiar to your ears. I

account of who you are and what it is that has befallen you.”
“Pray compose yourself, sir,” said Holmes, “and let me have a clear

suffer unless some way be found out of this horrible affair.”
soul. Besides, it is not I alone. The very noblest in the land may
together, and in so frightful a form, have been enough to shake my very
Private affliction also is the lot of every man; but the two coming
although I am a man whose character has never yet borne a stain.
sudden and so terrible is it. Public disgrace I might have faced,
“God knows I have!—a trouble which is enough to unseat my reason, so

“I see that you have had some great trouble,” responded Holmes.

“No doubt you think me mad?” said he.

lips tight, and turned his face towards us.
his emotion. Then he passed his handkerchief over his brow, set his
The man sat for a minute or more with a heaving chest, fighting against

problem which you may submit to me.”
yourself, and then I shall be most happy to look into any little
are fatigued with your haste. Pray wait until you have recovered
“You have come to me to tell your story, have you not?” said he. “You

him in the easy, soothing tones which he knew so well how to employ.
easy-chair and, sitting beside him, patted his hand and chatted with
to the centre of the room. Sherlock Holmes pushed him down into the
the wall with such force that we both rushed upon him and tore him away
reason. Then, suddenly springing to his feet, he beat his head against
at his hair like one who has been driven to the extreme limits of his
a while he could not get his words out, but swayed his body and plucked
eyes that our smiles were turned in an instant to horror and pity. For
gesticulating, but with so fixed a look of grief and despair in his
A few moments later he was in our room, still puffing, still

until the whole house resounded with the clanging.
the man, puffing and blowing, rushed at our door and pulled at our bell
that I recognise the symptoms. Ha! did I not tell you?” As he spoke,
“Yes; I rather think he is coming to consult me professionally. I think

“Here?”

“I believe that he is coming here,” said Holmes, rubbing his hands.

at the numbers of the houses.”
“What on earth can be the matter with him?” I asked. “He is looking up

into the most extraordinary contortions.
jerked his hands up and down, waggled his head, and writhed his face
who is little accustomed to set any tax upon his legs. As he ran he
running hard, with occasional little springs, such as a weary man gives
in absurd contrast to the dignity of his dress and features, for he was
brown gaiters, and well-cut pearl-grey trousers. Yet his actions were
in a sombre yet rich style, in black frock-coat, shining hat, neat
massive, strongly marked face and a commanding figure. He was dressed
He was a man of about fifty, tall, portly, and imposing, with a

whose eccentric conduct had drawn my attention.
of the Metropolitan Station no one was coming save the single gentleman
that there were fewer passengers than usual. Indeed, from the direction
had been cleaned and scraped, but was still dangerously slippery, so
the footpaths it still lay as white as when it fell. The grey pavement
band by the traffic, but at either side and on the heaped-up edges of
the centre of Baker Street it had been ploughed into a brown crumbly
lay deep upon the ground, shimmering brightly in the wintry sun. Down
bright, crisp February morning, and the snow of the day before still
pockets of his dressing-gown, looking over my shoulder. It was a
My friend rose lazily from his armchair and stood with his hands in the

his relatives should allow him to come out alone.”
the street, “here is a madman coming along. It seems rather sad that
“Holmes,” said I as I stood one morning in our bow-window looking down

XI. THE ADVENTURE OF THE BERYL CORONET



to solve is how to while away these bleak autumnal evenings.”
your chair up and hand me my violin, for the only problem we have still
that we are never likely to find ourselves in the same position. Draw
that we may judge Lord St. Simon very mercifully and thank our stars
found yourself deprived in an instant of wife and of fortune. I think
gracious either, if, after all the trouble of wooing and wedding, you
“Ah, Watson,” said Holmes, smiling, “perhaps you would not be very

not very gracious.”
“But with no very good result,” I remarked. “His conduct was certainly

appointment.”
I invited them to meet him here, and, as you see, I made him keep the
clearer both to the general public and to Lord St. Simon in particular.
better in every way that they should make their position a little
them some paternal advice and to point out to them that it would be
fortunate enough to find the loving couple at home, I ventured to give
to be forwarded to 226 Gordon Square; so thither I travelled, and being
the very items which I had seen in the duplicate bill. His letters were
day before, and on looking over the entries against him, I came upon
book that Francis H. Moulton, an American gentleman, had left only the
visited in Northumberland Avenue, I learned by an inspection of the
not many in London which charge at that rate. In the second one which I
glass of sherry pointed to one of the most expensive hotels. There are
“By the select prices. Eight shillings for a bed and eightpence for a

“How did you deduce the select?”

most select London hotels.”
it to know that within a week he had settled his bill at one of the
were, of course, of the highest importance, but more valuable still was
his hands the value of which he did not himself know. The initials
“It might have been difficult, but friend Lestrade held information in

“And how in the world did you find them?”

husband—the chances being in favour of the latter.”
gone off with a man, and the man was either a lover or was a previous
prior claim to—the whole situation became absolutely clear. She had
parlance means taking possession of that which another person has a
of her very significant allusion to claim-jumping—which in miners’
the dropping of a bouquet, of her resort to her confidential maid, and
the bride’s manner, of so transparent a device for obtaining a note as
Simon’s narrative. When he told us of a man in a pew, of the change in
strange conditions. So far I had got before I ever heard Lord St.
young womanhood had, I knew, been spent in rough scenes and under
influence over her? It might be a lover; it might be a husband. Her
Then who could this American be, and why should he possess so much
process of exclusion, at the idea that she might have seen an American.
change her plans so completely. You see we have already arrived, by a
influence over her that the mere sight of him would induce her to
country that she could hardly have allowed anyone to acquire so deep an
someone from America because she had spent so short a time in this
the bridegroom. Had she seen someone, then? If she had, it must be
spoken to anyone when she was out, for she had been in the company of
to change her mind. What could that something be? She could not have
Obviously something had occurred during the morning, then, to cause her
that she had repented of it within a few minutes of returning home.
lady had been quite willing to undergo the wedding ceremony, the other
“From the first, two facts were very obvious to me, the one that the

“You were not yourself at fault at all, then?”

Yard.”
the result when viewed, for instance, by Mr. Lestrade of Scotland
sequence of events as narrated by this lady, and nothing stranger than
to be almost inexplicable. Nothing could be more natural than the
simple the explanation may be of an affair which at first sight seems
visitors had left us, “because it serves to show very clearly how
“The case has been an interesting one,” remarked Holmes when our

Stars and Stripes.”
under a flag which shall be a quartering of the Union Jack with the
children from being some day citizens of the same world-wide country
blundering of a minister in far-gone years will not prevent our
for I am one of those who believe that the folly of a monarch and the
Sherlock Holmes. “It is always a joy to meet an American, Mr. Moulton,
“Then I trust that you at least will honour me with your company,” said

all in a sweeping bow and stalked out of the room.
permission I will now wish you all a very good-night.” He included us
hardly be expected to make merry over them. I think that with your
“I may be forced to acquiesce in these recent developments, but I can
“I think that there you ask a little too much,” responded his Lordship.

friendly supper.”
“I had hoped,” suggested Holmes, “that you would have joined us in a

and coldly grasped that which she extended to him.
“Oh, certainly, if it would give you any pleasure.” He put out his hand

“Then you won’t forgive me? You won’t shake hands before I go?”

intimate personal affairs in this public manner.”
“Excuse me,” he said, “but it is not my custom to discuss my most

narrative.
listened with a frowning brow and a compressed lip to this long
Lord St. Simon had by no means relaxed his rigid attitude, but had

do not think very meanly of me.”
all, and I am very sorry if I have given you pain, and I hope that you
right away round to his rooms at once. Now, Robert, you have heard it
give us a chance of talking to Lord St. Simon alone, and so we came
putting ourselves in the wrong if we were so secret. Then he offered to
kindly that I was wrong and that Frank was right, and that we should be
found us is more than I can think, and he showed us very clearly and
gentleman, Mr. Holmes, came round to us this evening, though how he
that we should have gone on to Paris to-morrow, only that this good
dropped them away somewhere where no one could find them. It is likely
things and made a bundle of them, so that I should not be traced, and
and waiting for me to come back. So Frank took my wedding-clothes and
think of all those lords and ladies sitting round that breakfast-table
to Pa, perhaps, to show him that I was alive. It was awful to me to
like to vanish away and never see any of them again—just sending a line
openness, but I was so ashamed of it all that I felt as if I should
“Then we had a talk as to what we should do, and Frank was all for

the church but not where the lady lived.”
“I saw it in a paper,” explained the American. “It gave the name and

and had come upon me at last on the very morning of my second wedding.”
I had given him up for dead and had gone to England, followed me there,
prisoner among the Apaches, had escaped, came on to ’Frisco, found that
true wedding after all those years of waiting. Frank had been a
drove to some lodgings he had taken in Gordon Square, and that was my
her and soon overtook Frank. We got into a cab together, and away we
secret of his own before marriage also—but I managed to get away from
Simon to me—seemed to me from the little I heard as if he had a little
followed him. Some woman came talking something or other about Lord St.
then began walking into the Park. I slipped out, put on my things, and
out of the window at the other side of the road. He beckoned to me and
afterwards. I hadn’t been at the table ten minutes before I saw Frank
those great people. I just made up my mind to run away and explain
Lord St. Simon, but it was dreadful hard before his mother and all
few things packed and my ulster ready. I know I ought to have spoken to
had always been his friend. I ordered her to say nothing, but to get a
“When I got back I told my maid, who had known him in California, and

he might direct.
that my first duty was now to him, and I determined to do just whatever
he made the sign to me to do so. Of course I never doubted for a moment
returned me the flowers. It was only a line asking me to join him when
my bouquet over to him, and he slipped the note into my hand when he
he was writing me a note. As I passed his pew on the way out I dropped
be still. Then I saw him scribble on a piece of paper, and I knew that
what I was thinking, for he raised his finger to his lips to tell me to
a scene in the church? I glanced at him again, and he seemed to know
in my ear. I didn’t know what to do. Should I stop the service and make
round, and the words of the clergyman were just like the buzz of a bee
see him. I wonder I didn’t drop. I know that everything was turning
question in his eyes, as if to ask me whether I were glad or sorry to
first; but when I looked again there he was still, with a kind of
looking at me out of the first pew. I thought it was his ghost at
as I came to the altar rails, I glanced back and saw Frank standing and
wife as it was in me to be. But you may imagine what I felt when, just
to the altar with him with the intention to make him just as good a
duty by him. We can’t command our love, but we can our actions. I went
“Still, if I had married Lord St. Simon, of course I’d have done my

in my heart that had been given to my poor Frank.
felt all the time that no man on this earth would ever take the place
to London, and a marriage was arranged, and Pa was very pleased, but I
Frank was really dead. Then Lord St. Simon came to ’Frisco, and we came
a word of news came for a year and more, so that I never doubted that
thought I had a decline and took me to half the doctors in ’Frisco. Not
killed. I fainted dead away, and I was very sick for months after. Pa
attacked by Apache Indians, and there was my Frank’s name among the
that came a long newspaper story about how a miners’ camp had been
prospecting in Arizona, and then I heard of him from New Mexico. After
“The next I heard of Frank was that he was in Montana, and then he went

went off to seek his fortune, and I went back to Pa.
all ready in waiting, that we just did it right there; and then Frank
talked it over, and he had fixed it all up so nicely, with a clergyman
and I won’t claim to be your husband until I come back?’ Well, we
married right away, then,’ said he, ‘and then I will feel sure of you;
myself not to marry anyone else while he lived. ‘Why shouldn’t we be
So then I promised to wait for him to the end of time and pledged
pile, too, and never come back to claim me until he had as much as Pa.
fixed it all up for ourselves. Frank said that he would go and make his
anything about it. It would only have made him mad to know, so we just
hand, though; so he followed me there, and he saw me without Pa knowing
any longer, and he took me away to ’Frisco. Frank wouldn’t throw up his
poorer was Frank; so at last Pa wouldn’t hear of our engagement lasting
a claim that petered out and came to nothing. The richer Pa grew the
father struck a rich pocket and made a pile, while poor Frank here had
claim. We were engaged to each other, Frank and I; but then one day
met in ’84, in McQuire’s camp, near the Rockies, where Pa was working a
“Then I’ll tell our story right away,” said the lady. “Frank here and I

manner.
a small, wiry, sunburnt man, clean-shaven, with a sharp face and alert
I should like all Europe and America to hear the rights of it.” He was
just a little too much secrecy over this business already. For my part,
“If I may give an opinion,” remarked the strange gentleman, “we’ve had

room while you explain this matter?”
“Perhaps, Mrs. Moulton, you would like my friend and me to leave the

there before the altar.”
doing or saying. I only wonder I didn’t fall down and do a faint right
the time when I saw Frank here again I just didn’t know what I was
have spoken to you before I went; but I was kind of rattled, and from
“Oh, yes, I know that I have treated you real bad and that I should

“Pray make no apology to me,” said Lord St. Simon bitterly.

to be.”
“You’re angry, Robert,” said she. “Well, I guess you have every cause

perhaps, for her pleading face was one which it was hard to resist.
still refused to raise his eyes. It was as well for his resolution,
taken a quick step forward and had held out her hand to him, but he
breast of his frock-coat, a picture of offended dignity. The lady had
stood very erect, with his eyes cast down and his hand thrust into the
At the sight of these newcomers our client had sprung from his seat and

Francis Hay Moulton. The lady, I think, you have already met.”
“Lord St. Simon,” said he “allow me to introduce you to Mr. and Mrs.
successful.” He opened the door and ushered in a lady and gentleman.
matter, Lord St. Simon, I have brought an advocate here who may be more
the landing. If I cannot persuade you to take a lenient view of the
“I think that I heard a ring,” said Holmes. “Yes, there are steps on

shamefully used.”
“I will make no allowance. I am very angry indeed, and I have been

a position.”
“You must make allowance for this poor girl, placed in so unprecedented

his fingers upon the table.
“It was a slight, sir, a public slight,” said Lord St. Simon, tapping

her at such a crisis.”
undoubtedly to be regretted. Having no mother, she had no one to advise
could have acted otherwise, though her abrupt method of doing it was
“I fail to see that anyone is to blame. I can hardly see how the lady

“Ah, you look on these things from another standpoint.”

humiliation.”
“It is the purest accident. I cannot allow that there is any

family has been subjected to such humiliation?”
“What will the Duke say,” he murmured, “when he hears that one of the

Lord St. Simon sank into a chair and passed his hand over his forehead.

“The best possible.”

you good authority for what you say?”
“Yes, and I confess that the contents startled me beyond measure. Have

“My messenger reached you, then?” asked Holmes.

perturbed expression upon his aristocratic features.
dangling his glasses more vigorously than ever, and with a very
It was indeed our visitor of the afternoon who came bustling in,

I hear his step now upon the stairs.”
surprised that Lord St. Simon has not already arrived. Ha! I fancy that
“Yes, I fancy we may have some company dropping in,” said he. “I am

“You seem to expect company. They have laid for five.”

“They have laid the supper, then,” he said, rubbing his hands.

made me think that he had not been disappointed in his conclusions.
His features were gravely set, but there was a light in his eye which
Just before nine o’clock Sherlock Holmes stepped briskly into the room.

to this address.
no explanation save that the things had been paid for and were ordered
two visitors vanished away, like the genii of the Arabian Nights, with
ancient and cobwebby bottles. Having laid out all these luxuries, my
cold woodcock, a pheasant, a _pâté de foie gras_ pie with a group of
upon our humble lodging-house mahogany. There were a couple of brace of
astonishment, a quite epicurean little cold supper began to be laid out
youth whom he had brought with him, and presently, to my very great
man with a very large flat box. This he unpacked with the help of a
time to be lonely, for within an hour there arrived a confectioner’s
It was after five o’clock when Sherlock Holmes left me, but I had no

papers for a little.”
work,” he remarked, “so I think, Watson, that I must leave you to your
overcoat. “There is something in what the fellow says about outdoor
He had hardly shut the door behind him when Holmes rose to put on his

forehead three times, shook his head solemnly, and hurried away.
Lestrade looked sadly at my companion. Then he turned to me, tapped his

person.”
Simon is a myth. There is not, and there never has been, any such
vanished; “I will tell you the true solution of the matter. Lady St.
“Just one hint to you, Lestrade,” drawled Holmes before his rival

for the door.
first.” He gathered up the garments, thrust them into the bag, and made
Mr. Holmes, and we shall see which gets to the bottom of the matter
work and not in sitting by the fire spinning fine theories. Good-day,
“I’ve wasted time enough,” said Lestrade, rising. “I believe in hard

you again.”
it is important also, or at least the initials are, so I congratulate
“Very likely not. It is most important, all the same. As to the note,

6_d_., glass sherry, 8_d_.’ I see nothing in that.”
4th, rooms 8_s_., breakfast 2_s_. 6_d_., cocktail 1_s_., lunch 2_s_.
“There’s nothing in it. I looked at it before,” said Lestrade. “‘Oct.

which interests me deeply.”
“And over here is what appears to be the fragment of a hotel bill,

here.”
“The right side? You’re mad! Here is the note written in pencil over

“On the contrary, this is the right side.”

shrieked, “you’re looking at the wrong side!”
Lestrade rose in his triumph and bent his head to look. “Why,” he

“Extremely so. I congratulate you warmly.”

“Ha! you find it so?”

satisfaction. “This is indeed important,” said he.
attention instantly became riveted, and he gave a little cry of
indeed. Let me see it.” He took up the paper in a listless way, but his
“Very good, Lestrade,” said Holmes, laughing. “You really are very fine

their reach.”
quietly slipped into her hand at the door and which lured her within
Here, signed with her initials, is the very note which was no doubt
with confederates, no doubt, was responsible for her disappearance.
that Lady St. Simon was decoyed away by Flora Millar, and that she,
all is ready. Come at once. F. H. M.’ Now my theory all along has been
upon the table in front of him. “Listen to this: ‘You will see me when
card-case is a note. And here is the very note.” He slapped it down
“In the dress is a pocket. In the pocket is a card-case. In the

“And how?”

This dress does implicate Miss Flora Millar.”
and your inferences. You have made two blunders in as many minutes.
afraid, Holmes, that you are not very practical with your deductions
“Are you, indeed, now?” cried Lestrade with some bitterness. “I am

“I am afraid that you will find it difficult.”

“At some evidence implicating Flora Millar in the disappearance.”

at through this?”
the neighbourhood of his wardrobe. And pray what did you hope to arrive
“By the same brilliant reasoning, every man’s body is to be found in

clothes were there the body would not be far off.”
have been identified as her clothes, and it seemed to me that if the
“No. They were found floating near the margin by a park-keeper. They

dragged them from the Serpentine?”
“Oh, indeed!” said my friend, blowing blue rings into the air. “You

a little nut for you to crack, Master Holmes.”
said he, putting a new wedding-ring upon the top of the pile. “There is
bride’s wreath and veil, all discoloured and soaked in water. “There,”
wedding-dress of watered silk, a pair of white satin shoes and a
it?” He opened his bag as he spoke, and tumbled onto the floor a
“Then perhaps you will kindly explain how it is that we found this in

“I think it very unlikely.”

matter?”
“Oh, indeed! Then you think that the Serpentine plays no part in the

“Well, I have only just heard the facts, but my mind is made up.”

about it,” he snarled.
Lestrade shot an angry glance at my companion. “I suppose you know all

as in the other.”
“Because you have just as good a chance of finding this lady in the one

“Why? What do you mean?”

“Have you dragged the basin of Trafalgar Square fountain?” he asked.

Sherlock Holmes leaned back in his chair and laughed heartily.

“In search of the body of Lady St. Simon.”

“In Heaven’s name, what for?”

“Yes, I have been dragging the Serpentine.”

upon the arm of the pea-jacket.
“And very wet it seems to have made you,” said Holmes laying his hand

through my fingers. I have been at work upon it all day.”
“Who ever heard of such a mixed affair? Every clue seems to slip

“Really! You surprise me.”

I can make neither head nor tail of the business.”
“And I feel dissatisfied. It is this infernal St. Simon marriage case.

dissatisfied.”
“What’s up, then?” asked Holmes with a twinkle in his eye. “You look

cigar which had been offered to him.
bag in his hand. With a short greeting he seated himself and lit the
gave him a decidedly nautical appearance, and he carried a black canvas
The official detective was attired in a pea-jacket and cravat, which

the sideboard, and there are cigars in the box.”
Lestrade! Good-afternoon, Lestrade! You will find an extra tumbler upon
Franco-Prussian War. It is one of these cases—but, hullo, here is
something on very much the same lines at Munich the year after the
so well. There was a parallel instance in Aberdeen some years back, and
“Without, however, the knowledge of pre-existing cases which serves me

“But I have heard all that you have heard.”

Thoreau’s example.”
very convincing, as when you find a trout in the milk, to quote
my conjecture into a certainty. Circumstantial evidence is occasionally
before, which were quite as prompt. My whole examination served to turn
“I have notes of several similar cases, though none, as I remarked

“My dear Holmes!”

our client came into the room.”
cross-questioning. I had formed my conclusions as to the case before
shall have a whisky and soda and a cigar after all this
level with his own,” said Sherlock Holmes, laughing. “I think that I
“It is very good of Lord St. Simon to honour my head by putting it on a

old-fashioned manner he departed.
heads than yours or mine,” he remarked, and bowing in a stately,
Lord St. Simon shook his head. “I am afraid that it will take wiser

“That is a detail which I shall speedily supply.”

“Where, then, is my wife?”

“I say that I have solved it.”

“Eh? What was that?”

“I have solved it.”

client, rising.
“Should you be fortunate enough to solve this problem,” said our

shall communicate with you.”
“Quite so. Then I do not think that I need to detain you longer. I

“We could see the other side of the road and the Park.”

you could see out of the window?”
data. May I ask whether you were seated at the breakfast-table so that
smiling. “And now, Lord St. Simon, I think that I have nearly all my
“Well, certainly that is also a conceivable hypothesis,” said Holmes,

success—I can hardly explain it in any other fashion.”
say upon me, but upon so much that many have aspired to without
“Well, really, when I consider that she has turned her back—I will not

“In short, that she had become suddenly deranged?”

effect of causing some little nervous disturbance in my wife.”
consciousness that she had made so immense a social stride, had the
has occurred to me as possible that the excitement of this affair, the
given you all the facts. Since you ask me, however, I may say that it
“Well, really, I came to seek a theory, not to propound one. I have

your own theory as to what took place?”
“Still, jealousy is a strange transformer of characters. Pray what is

“I do not think Flora would hurt a fly.”

as likely?”
“I did not say a probable one. But you do not yourself look upon this

“You think so, too?”

“Well, it is a possible supposition.”

terrible trap for her.”
serious. It is thought that Flora decoyed my wife out and laid some
“Yes. That is what Mr. Lestrade, of Scotland Yard, looks upon as so

“And she was seen walking with this very woman afterwards?”

“No, thank goodness, she did not.”

“Did your wife hear all this?”

in making a row.”
pushed her out again. She was quiet when she saw that there was no good
sort, and I had two police fellows there in private clothes, who soon
threatening her, but I had foreseen the possibility of something of the
her way in, uttering very abusive expressions towards my wife, and even
to Mr. Doran’s door just after we returned, and she endeavoured to push
was that I feared lest there might be a scandal in the church. She came
tell the truth, the reason why I had the marriage celebrated so quietly
dreadful letters when she heard that I was about to be married, and, to
exceedingly hot-headed and devotedly attached to me. She wrote me
you know what women are, Mr. Holmes. Flora was a dear little thing, but
ungenerously, and she had no just cause of complaint against me, but
friendly footing. She used to be at the Allegro. I have not treated her
been on a friendly footing for some years—I may say on a _very_
Lord St. Simon shrugged his shoulders and raised his eyebrows. “We have

your relations to her.”
“Ah, yes. I should like a few particulars as to this young lady, and

already made a disturbance at Mr. Doran’s house that morning.”
company with Flora Millar, a woman who is now in custody, and who had
“Quite so. And she was afterwards seen walking into Hyde Park in

and went out.”
room, covered her bride’s dress with a long ulster, put on a bonnet,
“But this maid, Alice, as I understand, deposes that she went to her

back.”
muttered some words of apology, and left the room. She never came
after we had sat down for ten minutes or so, she rose hurriedly,
“No, alone. She was very independent in little matters like that. Then,

“On your arm?”

“She walked into the breakfast-room.”

when she finished speaking to her maid?”
“American slang is very expressive sometimes. And what did your wife do

accustomed to use slang of the kind. I have no idea what she meant.”
“Lady St. Simon said something about ‘jumping a claim.’ She was

“You did not overhear what they said?”

“Oh, a few minutes. I had something else to think of.”

“How long did she speak to this Alice?”

things in a different way.”
take great liberties. Still, of course, in America they look upon these
“A little too much so. It seemed to me that her mistress allowed her to

“A confidential servant?”

her.”
“Alice is her name. She is an American and came from California with

“And who is her maid?”

“I saw her in conversation with her maid.”

her father’s house?”
frame of mind than she had gone to it. What did she do on re-entering
“Lady St. Simon, then, returned from the wedding in a less cheerful

think that we are wandering rather far from the point.”
common-looking person. I hardly noticed his appearance. But really I
“No, no; I call him a gentleman by courtesy, but he was quite a

“This gentleman was not one of your wife’s friends?”

“Oh, yes. It is impossible to exclude them when the church is open.”

general public were present, then?”
“Indeed! You say that there was a gentleman in the pew. Some of the

agitated over this trifling cause.”
abruptly; and in the carriage, on our way home, she seemed absurdly
the fall. Yet when I spoke to her of the matter, she answered me
handed it up to her again, and it did not appear to be the worse for
into the pew. There was a moment’s delay, but the gentleman in the pew
vestry. She was passing the front pew at the time, and it fell over
“Oh, it is childish. She dropped her bouquet as we went towards the

“Pray let us have it, for all that.”

too trivial to relate and can have no possible bearing upon the case.”
seen that her temper was just a little sharp. The incident however, was
“Well, to tell the truth, I saw then the first signs that I had ever

“And did you observe any change in her then?”

“She was as bright as possible—at least until after the ceremony.”

“Indeed! That is very interesting. And on the morning of the wedding?”

lives.”
“Never better. She kept talking of what we should do in our future

“Was she in good spirits?”

“Yes.”

wedding?”
“Very naturally not. Did you see Miss Doran on the day before the

“I really have made no inquiries on the subject.”

accompli_?”
“And this, of course, remains to you, since the marriage is a _fait

“A fair dowry. Not more than is usual in my family.”

“She brought, I understand, a considerable dowry?”

her several times, became engaged to her, and have now married her.”
“Yes, her father brought her over for this last London season. I met

acquaintance?”
“The young lady came to London, then, and you renewed your

handed it back to Lord St. Simon.
Holmes gazed long and earnestly at it. Then he closed the locket and
lustrous black hair, the large dark eyes, and the exquisite mouth.
miniature, and the artist had brought out the full effect of the
face of a very lovely woman. It was not a photograph but an ivory
“I brought this with me.” He opened a locket and showed us the full

“Have you her photograph?”

be repugnant to her.”
capable of heroic self-sacrifice and that anything dishonourable would
not thought her to be at bottom a noble woman. I believe that she is
which I have the honour to bear”—he gave a little stately cough—“had I
resolutions. On the other hand, I would not have given her the name
She is swift in making up her mind and fearless in carrying out her
any sort of traditions. She is impetuous—volcanic, I was about to say.
in England a tomboy, with a strong nature, wild and free, unfettered by
come from Nature rather than from the schoolmaster. She is what we call
camp and wandered through woods or mountains, so that her education has
father became a rich man. During that time she ran free in a mining
fire. “You see, Mr. Holmes,” said he, “my wife was twenty before her
The nobleman swung his glasses a little faster and stared down into the

character?”
“Now, what is your own impression as to the young lady’s—your wife’s

invested it, and came up by leaps and bounds.”
“In mining. He had nothing a few years ago. Then he struck gold,

“And how did he make his money?”

“He is said to be the richest man on the Pacific slope.”

“Her father is very rich?”

“I was amused by her society, and she could see that I was amused.”

“But you were on a friendly footing?”

“No.”

“Did you become engaged then?”

“Yes.”

“You were travelling in the States?”

“In San Francisco, a year ago.”

“When did you first meet Miss Hatty Doran?”

“Pray do so.”

questioning you.”
an opinion. I think that I may arrive at my facts most directly by
“But it needs a great deal of supplementing before anyone could offer

goes.”
Lord St. Simon glanced over it. “Yes, it is correct, as far as it

example, as to the disappearance of the bride.”
nothing more. I presume that I may take it as correct—this article, for
“Thank you. I have already learned all that is in the public prints,

forming an opinion.”
case, I am ready to give you any information which may assist you in
“Of course! Very right! very right! I’m sure I beg pardon. As to my own

yours.”
affairs of my other clients the same secrecy which I promise to you in
“You can understand,” said Holmes suavely, “that I extend to the

“What! Had he lost his wife?”

“The King of Scandinavia.”

“Oh, really! I had no idea. And which king?”

“My last client of the sort was a king.”

“I beg pardon.”

“No, I am descending.”

presume that they were hardly from the same class of society.”
already managed several delicate cases of this sort, sir, though I
Holmes. I have been cut to the quick. I understand that you have
“A most painful matter to me, as you can most readily imagine, Mr.

a little to the fire, and we will talk this matter over.”
the basket-chair. This is my friend and colleague, Dr. Watson. Draw up
“Good-day, Lord St. Simon,” said Holmes, rising and bowing. “Pray take

eyeglasses.
to right, and swinging in his right hand the cord which held his golden
gaiters. He advanced slowly into the room, turning his head from left
waistcoat, yellow gloves, patent-leather shoes, and light-coloured
verge of foppishness, with high collar, black frock-coat, white
edges and thin upon the top. As to his dress, it was careful to the
too, as he swept off his very curly-brimmed hat, was grizzled round the
forward stoop and a little bend of the knees as he walked. His hair,
general appearance gave an undue impression of age, for he had a slight
been to command and to be obeyed. His manner was brisk, and yet his
the steady, well-opened eye of a man whose pleasant lot it had ever
and pale, with something perhaps of petulance about the mouth, and with
door. A gentleman entered, with a pleasant, cultured face, high-nosed
“Lord Robert St. Simon,” announced our page-boy, throwing open the

memory.”
very much prefer having a witness, if only as a check to my own
will prove to be our noble client. Do not dream of going, Watson, for I
the clock makes it a few minutes after four, I have no doubt that this
missed it for worlds. But there is a ring at the bell, Watson, and as
“And an exceedingly interesting case it appears to be. I would not have

now—so far as it has been set forth in the public press.”
There are no further particulars, and the whole case is in your hands
at the Allegro, and that she has known the bridegroom for some years.
actually been arrested. It appears that she was formerly a _danseuse_
“That Miss Flora Millar, the lady who had caused the disturbance, has

“And it is—”

suggestive one.”
“Only one little item in another of the morning papers, but it is a

“And is that all?”

strange disappearance of the bride.’”
jealousy or some other motive, she may have been concerned in the
woman who had caused the original disturbance, in the belief that, from
matter, and it is said that the police have caused the arrest of the
whereabouts of the missing lady. There are rumours of foul play in the
Up to a late hour last night, however, nothing had transpired as to the
probably result in a speedy clearing up of this very singular business.
police, and very energetic inquiries are being made, which will
the bridegroom, instantly put themselves in communication with the
his daughter had disappeared, Mr. Aloysius Doran, in conjunction with
mistress, believing her to be with the company. On ascertaining that
house thus apparelled, but had refused to credit that it was his
passage. One of the footmen declared that he had seen a lady leave the
for an instant, caught up an ulster and bonnet, and hurried down to the
her, but learned from her maid that she had only come up to her chamber
Her prolonged absence having caused some comment, her father followed
when she complained of a sudden indisposition and retired to her room.
this unpleasant interruption, had sat down to breakfast with the rest,
the footman. The bride, who had fortunately entered the house before
a painful and prolonged scene that she was ejected by the butler and
alleging that she had some claim upon Lord St. Simon. It was only after
endeavoured to force her way into the house after the bridal party,
trouble was caused by a woman, whose name has not been ascertained, who
Gate, where breakfast had been prepared. It appears that some little
proceeded afterwards to the house of Mr. Aloysius Doran, at Lancaster
of the bridegroom), and Lady Alicia Whittington. The whole party
Lord Eustace and Lady Clara St. Simon (the younger brother and sister
bride, Mr. Aloysius Doran, the Duchess of Balmoral, Lord Backwater,
was a very quiet one, no one being present save the father of the
“‘The ceremony, which was performed at St. George’s, Hanover Square,

affecting to disregard what is a common subject for conversation.
has now been drawn to it that no good purpose can be served by
attempts of the friends to hush the matter up, so much public attention
rumours which have been so persistently floating about. In spite of the
but it is only now that it has been possible to confirm the strange
announced in the papers of yesterday, occurred on the previous morning;
place in connection with his wedding. The ceremony, as shortly
consternation by the strange and painful episodes which have taken
“‘The family of Lord Robert St. Simon has been thrown into the greatest

Occurrence at a Fashionable Wedding’:
paper of yesterday, which I will read to you. It is headed, ‘Singular
“Such as they are, they are set forth in a single article of a morning

“Perhaps we may make them less so.”

“I warn you that they are very incomplete.”

Pray let me have the details.”
honeymoon; but I cannot call to mind anything quite so prompt as this.
“They often vanish before the ceremony, and occasionally during the

“Yes; it struck me as being a little out of the common.”

dramatic, in fact.”
“Indeed. This is more interesting than it promised to be; quite

“At the wedding breakfast.”

“When did she vanish, then?”

“The vanishing of the lady.”

“Before the what?” asked Holmes with a start.

all the notices which appeared before the disappearance of the bride.”
would be passed at Lord Backwater’s place, near Petersfield. Those are
announcement that the wedding had taken place, and that the honeymoon
Doran. Two days later—that is, on Wednesday last—there is a curt
furnished house at Lancaster Gate which has been taken by Mr. Aloysius
friends would be invited, and that the party would return to the
be at St. George’s, Hanover Square, that only half a dozen intimate
say that the marriage would be an absolutely quiet one, that it would
“Oh, yes; plenty. Then there is another note in the _Morning Post_ to

“Anything else?” asked Holmes, yawning.

from a Republican lady to a British peeress.’”
alliance which will enable her to make the easy and common transition
obvious that the Californian heiress is not the only gainer by an
no property of his own save the small estate of Birchmoor, it is
sell his pictures within the last few years, and as Lord St. Simon has
it is an open secret that the Duke of Balmoral has been compelled to
considerably over the six figures, with expectancies for the future. As
child, and it is currently reported that her dowry will run to
attracted much attention at the Westbury House festivities, is an only
millionaire. Miss Doran, whose graceful figure and striking face
with Miss Hatty Doran, the fascinating daughter of a California
god’s arrows, has now definitely announced his approaching marriage
who has shown himself for over twenty years proof against the little
which have been borne away by these charming invaders. Lord St. Simon,
addition has been made during the last week to the list of the prizes
hands of our fair cousins from across the Atlantic. An important
the management of the noble houses of Great Britain is passing into the
principle appears to tell heavily against our home product. One by one
protection in the marriage  market, for the present free-trade
the same week. Ah, here it is: ‘There will soon be a call for
“There was a paragraph amplifying this in one of the society papers of

legs towards the fire.
“Terse and to the point,” remarked Holmes, stretching his long, thin

Aloysius Doran. Esq., of San Francisco, Cal., U.S.A.’ That is all.”
son of the Duke of Balmoral, and Miss Hatty Doran, the only daughter of
correct, very shortly take place, between Lord Robert St. Simon, second
‘A marriage has been arranged,’ it says, ‘and will, if rumour is
column of the _Morning Post_, and dates, as you see, some weeks back:
“Here is the first notice which I can find. It is in the personal

first. Pray give me the results of your newspaper selections.”
That is quite cleared up now—though, indeed, it was obvious from the
“Oh, you mean the little problem of the Grosvenor Square furniture van.

on hand and that you disliked the intrusion of other matters.”
feared to refer them to you, however, as I knew that you had an inquiry
the facts are quite recent, and the matter struck me as remarkable. I
“I have very little difficulty in finding what I want,” said I, “for

solid.”
in all this. I think that I must turn to you Watson, for something more
Tudor on the distaff side. Ha! Well, there is nothing very instructive
Foreign Affairs. They inherit Plantagenet blood by direct descent, and
administration. The Duke, his father, was at one time Secretary for
mature for marriage. Was Under-Secretary for the colonies in a late
over a fess sable. Born in 1846.’ He’s forty-one years of age, which is
of the Duke of Balmoral.’ Hum! ‘Arms: Azure, three caltrops in chief
upon his knee. “‘Lord Robert Walsingham de Vere St. Simon, second son
mantelpiece. “Here he is,” said he, sitting down and flattening it out
red-covered volume from a line of books of reference beside the
of time, while I take a glance as to who our client is.” He picked a
subject. Turn over those papers and arrange the extracts in their order
“Then I have just time, with your assistance, to get clear upon the

“He says four o’clock. It is three now. He will be here in an hour.”

epistle.
side of his right little finger,” remarked Holmes as he folded up the
noble lord has had the misfortune to get a smear of ink upon the outer
“It is dated from Grosvenor Mansions, written with a quill pen, and the


    “‘ROBERT ST. SIMON.’


    importance. Yours faithfully,
    I hope that you will postpone it, as this matter is of paramount
    afternoon, and, should you have any other engagement at that time,
    might be of some assistance. I will call at four o’clock in the
    objection to your co-operation, and that he even thinks that it
    acting already in the matter, but he assures me that he sees no
    connection with my wedding. Mr. Lestrade, of Scotland Yard, is
    reference to the very painful event which has occurred in
    determined, therefore, to call upon you and to consult you in
    place implicit reliance upon your judgment and discretion. I have
    “‘MY DEAR MR. SHERLOCK HOLMES,—Lord Backwater tells me that I may

says:
papers and let me have whatever bears upon the matter. This is what he
Simon. I will read it to you, and in return you must turn over these
“That is well. The letter which I hold in my hand is from Lord St.

“Oh, yes, with the deepest interest.”

you must have read about Lord St. Simon and his wedding?”
always instructive. But if you have followed recent events so closely
nothing except the criminal news and the agony column. The latter is
“It is fortunate, for you will perhaps be able to post me up. I read

corner. “I have had nothing else to do.”
“It looks like it,” said I ruefully, pointing to a huge bundle in the

have you not?”
new investigation. You have been reading the papers diligently of late,
It is just possible, however, that that also may not be wanting in this
client is a matter of less moment to me than the interest of his case.
“I assure you, Watson, without affectation, that the status of my

“My dear fellow, I congratulate you.”

“One of the highest in England.”

“And from a noble client?”

“No, distinctly professional.”

“Not social, then?”

“Oh, come, it may prove to be something of interest, after all.”

He broke the seal and glanced over the contents.

a man either to be bored or to lie.”
This looks like one of those unwelcome social summonses which call upon
answered, smiling, “and the humbler are usually the more interesting.
“Yes, my correspondence has certainly the charm of variety,” he

tide-waiter.”
morning letters, if I remember right, were from a fish-monger and a
“Here is a very fashionable epistle,” I remarked as he entered. “Your

correspondent could be.
envelope upon the table and wondering lazily who my friend’s noble
aside and lay listless, watching the huge crest and monogram upon the
until at last, saturated with the news of the day, I tossed them all
legs upon another, I had surrounded myself with a cloud of newspapers
throbbed with dull persistence. With my body in one easy-chair and my
brought back in one of my limbs as a relic of my Afghan campaign
to rain, with high autumnal winds, and the jezail bullet which I had
had remained indoors all day, for the weather had taken a sudden turn
an afternoon stroll to find a letter on the table waiting for him. I
still sharing rooms with Holmes in Baker Street, that he came home from
It was a few weeks before my own marriage, during the days when I was

sketch of this remarkable episode.
up, I feel that no memoir of him would be complete without some little
friend Sherlock Holmes had a considerable share in clearing the matter
full facts have never been revealed to the general public, and as my
four-year-old drama. As I have reason to believe, however, that the
their more piquant details have drawn the gossips away from this
the unfortunate bridegroom moves. Fresh scandals have eclipsed it, and
ceased to be a subject of interest in those exalted circles in which
The Lord St. Simon marriage, and its curious termination, have long

X. THE ADVENTURE OF THE NOBLE BACHELOR



being excellent company for the remainder of your existence.”
you know; you have only to put it into words to gain the reputation of
“Experience,” said Holmes, laughing. “Indirectly it may be of value,

thumb and I have lost a fifty-guinea fee, and what have I gained?”
more to London, “it has been a pretty business for me! I have lost my
“Well,” said our engineer ruefully as we took our seats to return once

the unconscious man out of the way of danger.
or less murderous than his companion, had assisted the woman to bear
whole, it was most probable that the silent Englishman, being less bold
had remarkably small feet and the other unusually large ones. On the
tale. He had evidently been carried down by two persons, one of whom
mystery were it not for the soft mould, which told us a very plain
spot where he recovered his senses might have remained forever a
How our hydraulic engineer had been conveyed from the garden to the

been already referred to.
which may have explained the presence of those bulky boxes which have
were discovered stored in an out-house, but no coins were to be found,
unfortunate acquaintance so dearly. Large masses of nickel and of tin
iron piping, not a trace remained of the machinery which had cost our
reduced to such absolute ruin that, save some twisted cylinders and
flames, but not before the roof had fallen in, and the whole place been
however, their efforts were at last successful, and they subdued the
human thumb upon a window-sill of the second floor. About sunset,
they had found within, and still more so by discovering a newly severed
The firemen had been much perturbed at the strange arrangements which

discover the least clue as to their whereabouts.
fugitives disappeared, and even Holmes’ ingenuity failed ever to
rapidly in the direction of Reading, but there all traces of the
a cart containing several people and some very bulky boxes driving
German, or the morose Englishman. Early that morning a peasant had met
word has ever been heard either of the beautiful woman, the sinister
And Holmes’ fears came to be realised, for from that day to this no

though I very much fear that they are a good hundred miles off by now.”
Now keep your eyes open in this crowd for your friends of last night,
they were too excited in the chase after you to observe it at the time.
crushed in the press, set fire to the wooden walls, though no doubt
There can be no question that it was your oil-lamp which, when it was
“Well, at least,” said Holmes, “you have had your revenge upon them.

window is the one that I jumped from.”
gravel-drive, and there are the rose-bushes where I lay. That second
“That’s it!” cried Hatherley, in intense excitement. “There is the

three fire-engines were vainly striving to keep the flames under.
spouting fire at every chink and window, while in the garden in front
there was a great widespread whitewashed building in front of us,
hastening in the direction of the fire. The road topped a low hill, and
The station-master had not finished his speech before we were all

Berkshire beef would do him no harm.”
understand, who is a foreigner, and he looks as if a little good
waistcoat. But he has a gentleman staying with him, a patient, as I
Englishman, and there isn’t a man in the parish who has a better-lined
The station-master laughed heartily. “No, sir, Dr. Becher is an

with a long, sharp nose?”
“Tell me,” broke in the engineer, “is Dr. Becher a German, very thin,

“Dr. Becher’s.”

“Whose house is it?”

the whole place is in a blaze.”
“I hear that it was during the night, sir, but it has got worse, and

“When did it break out?”

“Yes, sir!” said the station-master.

its way.
“A house on fire?” asked Bradstreet as the train steamed off again on

feather over the landscape.
clump of trees in the neighbourhood and hung like an immense ostrich
saw a gigantic column of smoke which streamed up from behind a small
to fall into the hands of justice. As we rolled into Eyford Station we
But the inspector was mistaken, for those criminals were not destined

them right enough.”
hands. But now, thanks to this lucky chance, I think that we have got
had covered their traces in a way that showed that they were very old
even traced them as far as Reading, but could get no farther, for they
inspector. “They have been turning out half-crowns by the thousand. We
“We have known for some time that a clever gang was at work,” said the

silver.”
have used the machine to form the amalgam which has taken the place of
“None at all,” said Holmes. “They are coiners on a large scale, and

“Of course there can be no doubt as to the nature of this gang.”
“Indeed, it is a likely ruse enough,” observed Bradstreet thoughtfully.

gone twelve miles over heavy roads?”
was fresh and glossy when you got in. How could it be that if it had
“Six out and six back. Nothing simpler. You say yourself that the horse

“But the twelve-mile drive?” gasped Hatherley.

centre of the circle. “This is where we shall find them.”
“Oh, yes, you can. This is my point.” He placed his finger in the

“But we can’t all be.”

“You are all wrong.”

casting vote to?”
opinion. We have boxed the compass among us. Who do you give your
“Come,” cried the inspector, laughing; “it’s a very pretty diversity of

our friend says that he did not notice the carriage go up any.”
“And I am for north,” said I, “because there are no hills there, and

quiet little villages up there.”
“I am for west,” remarked the plain-clothes man. “There are several

“And I say east,” said my patient.

country is more deserted there.”
Come, now, we shall see who agrees with you. I say it is south, for the
“Really, now!” cried the inspector, “you have formed your opinion!

“I think I could lay my finger on it,” said Holmes quietly.

that we are in search of are to be found.”
drawn my circle, and I only wish I knew at what point upon it the folk
“Oh, we shall soon clear up all that,” said Bradstreet. “Well, I have

life.”
“I hardly think that likely. I never saw a more inexorable face in my

was softened by the woman’s entreaties.”
when they found you lying fainting in the garden. Perhaps the villain
“What I cannot understand,” said I, “is why they should have spared you

lifted and conveyed somewhere.”
“They must have done so. I have a confused memory, too, of having been

unconscious?”
“And you think that they brought you back all that way when you were

“It was an hour’s good drive.”

line. You said ten miles, I think, sir.”
miles from the village. The place we want must be somewhere near that
“There you are,” said he. “That circle is drawn at a radius of ten

a circle with Eyford for its centre.
of the county out upon the seat and was busy with his compasses drawing
a plain-clothes man, and myself. Bradstreet had spread an ordnance map
Holmes, the hydraulic engineer, Inspector Bradstreet, of Scotland Yard,
bound from Reading to the little Berkshire village. There were Sherlock
Some three hours or so afterwards we were all in the train together,

at once as a preliminary to starting for Eyford.”
precious, so if you feel equal to it we shall go down to Scotland Yard
leave no survivor from a captured ship. Well, every moment now is
in the way of his little game, like those out-and-out pirates who will
desperate man, who was absolutely determined that nothing should stand
“Undoubtedly. It is quite clear that the colonel was a cool and

said.”
“Good heavens!” cried my patient. “Then that explains what the girl

fancy.”
last time that the colonel needed to have his machine overhauled, I
heard of since. Was dressed in,’ etc., etc. Ha! That represents the
engineer. Left his lodgings at ten o’clock at night, and has not been
the 9th inst., Mr. Jeremiah Hayling, aged twenty-six, a hydraulic
appeared in all the papers about a year ago. Listen to this: ‘Lost, on
“Here is an advertisement which will interest you,” said he. “It

cuttings.
shelf one of the ponderous commonplace books in which he placed his
extraordinary narrative. Then Sherlock Holmes pulled down from the
We both sat in silence for some little time after listening to this

put the case into your hands and shall do exactly what you advise.”
dressed, and then the doctor was kind enough to bring me along here. I
was a little past six when I arrived, so I went first to have my wound
wait until I got back to town before telling my story to the police. It
“It was too far for me to go, weak and ill as I was. I determined to

one about three miles off.
me? No, he had not. Was there a police-station anywhere near? There was
strange to him. Had he observed a carriage the night before waiting for
whether he had ever heard of Colonel Lysander Stark. The name was
on duty, I found, as had been there when I arrived. I inquired of him
There would be one to Reading in less than an hour. The same porter was
“Half dazed, I went into the station and asked about the morning train.

those dreadful hours might have been an evil dream.
Were it not for the ugly wound upon my hand, all that had passed during
to be the very station at which I had arrived upon the previous night.
lower down was a long building, which proved, upon my approaching it,
lying in an angle of the hedge close by the highroad, and just a little
look round me, neither house nor garden were to be seen. I had been
yet be safe from my pursuers. But to my astonishment, when I came to
adventure, and I sprang to my feet with the feeling that I might hardly
smarting of it recalled in an instant all the particulars of my night’s
and my coat-sleeve was drenched with blood from my wounded thumb. The
breaking when I came to myself. My clothes were all sodden with dew,
very long time, for the moon had sunk, and a bright morning was
“How long I remained unconscious I cannot tell. It must have been a

the rose-bushes.
sudden buzzing in my ears, and next moment I fell in a dead faint among
wound. I endeavoured to tie my handkerchief round it, but there came a
that my thumb had been cut off and that the blood was pouring from my
hand, which was throbbing painfully, and then, for the first time, saw
ran, a deadly dizziness and sickness came over me. I glanced down at my
that I was far from being out of danger yet. Suddenly, however, as I
rushed off among the bushes as hard as I could run, for I understood
“I was shaken but not hurt by the fall; so I picked myself up and

loosened, and I fell into the garden below.
the sill, when his blow fell. I was conscious of a dull pain, my grip
his heavy weapon. I had let myself go, and was hanging by the hands to
He dashed her to one side, and, rushing to the window, cut at me with
‘You will be the ruin of us. He has seen too much. Let me pass, I say!’
“‘You are mad, Elise!’ he shouted, struggling to break away from her.

will be silent!’
last time. You said it should not be again. He will be silent! Oh, he
“‘Fritz! Fritz!’ she cried in English, ‘remember your promise after the

her arms round him and tried to hold him back.
mind before he was at the door, pushing his way past her; but she threw
go back to her assistance. The thought had hardly flashed through my
pursued me. If she were ill-used, then at any risks I was determined to
should have heard what passed between my saviour and the ruffian who
down. I clambered out upon the sill, but I hesitated to jump until I
looked in the moonlight, and it could not be more than thirty feet
window, and looked out. How quiet and sweet and wholesome the garden
cleaver in the other. I rushed across the bedroom, flung open the
forward with a lantern in one hand and a weapon like a butcher’s
passage, and I saw the lean figure of Colonel Lysander Stark rushing
“As she spoke a light sprang into view at the further end of the

you can jump it.’
“‘It is your only chance,’ said she. ‘It is high, but it may be that

of which the moon was shining brightly.
Then she threw open a door which led into a bedroom, through the window
guide stopped and looked about her like one  who is at her wit’s end.
the other from the floor on which  we were and from the one beneath. My
the sound of running feet and the shouting of two voices, one answering
latter led to another broad passage, and just as we reached it we heard
feet and ran with her along the corridor and down a winding stair. The
“This time, at least, I did not scorn her advice. I staggered to my

time, but come!’
They will see that you are not there. Oh, do not waste the so-precious
“‘Come! come!’ she cried breathlessly. ‘They will be here in a moment.

so foolishly rejected.
a candle in her right. It was the same good friend whose warning I had
woman bent over me and tugged at me with her left hand, while she held
found myself lying upon the stone floor of a narrow corridor, while a
“I was recalled to myself by a frantic plucking at my wrist, and I

told me how narrow had been my escape.
lamp, and a few moments afterwards the clang of the two slabs of metal,
other side. The panel had closed again behind me, but the crash of the
The next instant I threw myself through, and lay half-fainting upon the
hardly believe that here was indeed a door which led away from death.
broadened as a small panel was pushed backward. For an instant I could
of yellow light between two of the boards, which broadened and
were of wood. As I gave a last hurried glance around, I saw a thin line
“I have said that though the floor and ceiling were of iron, the walls

brought a gush of hope back to my heart.
Already I was unable to stand erect, when my eye caught something which
to lie and look up at that deadly black shadow wavering down upon me?
dreadful snap. Easier the other way, perhaps; and yet, had I the nerve
weight would come upon my spine, and I shuddered to think of that
very much upon the position in which I met it. If I lay on my face the
Then it flashed through my mind that the pain of my death would depend
head, and with my hand upraised I could feel its hard, rough surface.
levers drowned my cries. The ceiling was only a foot or two above my
implored the colonel to let me out, but the remorseless clanking of the
screaming, against the door, and dragged with my nails at the lock. I
within a minute grind me to a shapeless pulp. I threw myself,
jerkily, but, as none knew better than myself, with a force which must
light I saw that the black ceiling was coming down upon me, slowly,
upon the floor where I had placed it when examining the trough. By its
leaking cylinder. He had set the engine at work. The lamp still stood
into my mouth. It was the clank of the levers and the swish of the
“And then suddenly in the silence I heard a sound which sent my heart

I yelled. ‘Hullo! Colonel! Let me out!’
secure, and did not give in the least to my kicks and shoves. ‘Hullo!’
lock. I rushed towards it and pulled at the handle, but it was quite
a step backward, slammed the little door, and turned the key in the
“‘Very well,’ said he, ‘you shall know all about the machine.’ He took

eyes.
speech. His face set hard, and a baleful light sprang up in his grey
“The instant that I uttered the words I regretted the rashness of my

I knew what the exact purpose was for which it was used.’
think that I should be better able to advise you as to your machine if
which he had told me. ‘I was admiring your fuller’s-earth,’ said I; ‘I
“I felt angry at having been tricked by so elaborate a story as that

“‘What are you doing there?’ he asked.

the colonel looking down at me.
heard a muttered exclamation in German and saw the cadaverous face of
had stooped and was scraping at this to see exactly what it was when I
to examine it I could see a crust of metallic deposit all over it. I
wood, but the floor consisted of a large iron trough, and when I came
engine could be designed for so inadequate a purpose. The walls were of
fabrication, for it would be absurd to suppose that so powerful an
obvious at a glance that the story of the fuller’s-earth was the merest
machine and took a good look at it to satisfy my own curiosity. It was
I had made it clear to them, I returned to the main chamber of the
practical questions as to how they should proceed to set it right. When
companions, who followed my remarks very carefully and asked several
clearly the cause of the loss of power, and I pointed it out to my
so as not quite to fill the socket along which it worked. This was
india-rubber bands which was round the head of a driving-rod had shrunk
one of the side cylinders. An examination showed that one of the
was a slight leakage, which allowed a regurgitation of water through
which controlled it, I knew at once by the whishing sound that there
pressure. When I passed outside, however, and pressed down the levers
It was indeed a gigantic one, and capable of exercising enormous
“I took the lamp from him, and I examined the machine very thoroughly.

show us how we can set it right.’
of its force. Perhaps you will have the goodness to look it over and to
there is some stiffness in the working of it, and it has lost a little
manner which is familiar to you. The machine goes readily enough, but
which receive the force, and which transmit and multiply it in the
this metal floor. There are small lateral columns of water outside
descending piston, and it comes down with the force of many tons upon
it on. The ceiling of this small chamber is really the end of the
would be a particularly unpleasant thing for us if anyone were to turn
“‘We are now,’ said he, ‘actually within the hydraulic press, and it

colonel ushered me in.
could hardly get at one time. Ferguson remained outside, and the
unlocked. Within was a small, square room, in which the three of us
“Colonel Lysander Stark stopped at last before a low door, which he

a fellow-countryman.
man, but I could see from the little that he said that he was at least
eye upon my two companions. Ferguson appeared to be a morose and silent
warnings of the lady, even though I disregarded them, and I kept a keen
on as unconcerned an air as possible, but I had not forgotten the
damp was breaking through in green, unhealthy blotches. I tried to put
the ground floor, while the plaster was peeling off the walls, and the
crossed them. There were no carpets and no signs of any furniture above
the thresholds of which were hollowed out by the generations who had
corridors, passages, narrow winding staircases, and little low doors,
manager and I behind him. It was a labyrinth of an old house, with
“We went upstairs together, the colonel first with the lamp, the fat

wrong with it.’
we wish you to do is to examine the machine and to let us know what is
“‘No, no. This is only where we compress it. But never mind that. All

“‘What, you dig fuller’s-earth in the house?’

“‘Oh, no, it is in the house.’

“‘I had better put my hat on, I suppose.’

up to see the machine.’
proceed to business, then,’ said he. ‘Mr. Ferguson and I will take you
“He shot one of his suspicious looks at me. ‘Perhaps we had better

the room to be a little close.’
“‘On the contrary,’ said I, ‘I opened the door myself because I felt

that you have felt the draught.’
was under the impression that I left this door shut just now. I fear
“‘This is my secretary and manager,’ said the colonel. ‘By the way, I

introduced to me as Mr. Ferguson.
chinchilla beard growing out of the creases of his double chin, who was
“The newcomers were Colonel Lysander Stark and a short thick man with a

noiselessly as she had come.
up her hands with a despairing gesture, and vanished as suddenly and as
footsteps was heard upon the stairs. She listened for an instant, threw
her entreaties when a door slammed overhead, and the sound of several
declared my intention of remaining where I was. She was about to renew
shaken me more than I cared to confess, I still shook my head and
monomaniac. With a stout bearing, therefore, though her manner had
payment which was my due? This woman might, for all I knew, be a
I slink away without having carried out my commission, and without the
which seemed to be before me. Was it all to go for nothing? Why should
fifty-guinea fee, of my wearisome journey, and of the unpleasant night
in an affair when there is some obstacle in the way. I thought of my
“But I am somewhat headstrong by nature, and the more ready to engage

whispered, ‘get away from here before it is too late!’
forward, with her hands wrung together. ‘For the love of Heaven!’ she
shook my head, she suddenly threw aside her constraint and made a step
through the door; no one hinders.’ And then, seeing that I smiled and
“‘It is not worth your while to wait,’ she went on. ‘You can pass

possibly leave until I have seen the machine.’
“‘But, madam,’ said I, ‘I have not yet done what I came for. I cannot

to do.’
calmly; ‘I would go. I should not stay here. There is no good for you
“‘I would go,’ said she, trying hard, as it seemed to me, to speak

behind her.
eyes glancing back, like those of a frightened horse, into the gloom
silent, and she shot a few whispered words of broken English at me, her
chill to my own heart. She held up one shaking finger to warn me to be
could see at a glance that she was sick with fear, and the sight sent a
yellow light from my lamp beating upon her eager and beautiful face. I
standing in the aperture, the darkness of the hall behind her, the
stillness, the door of my room swung slowly open. The woman was
“Suddenly, without any preliminary sound in the midst of the utter

fifty-guinea fee.
to keep up my spirits and feeling that I was thoroughly earning my
country. I paced up and down the room, humming a tune under my breath
quite certain, from the absolute stillness, that we were in the
radius, so the place might not be so secluded, after all. Yet it was
matter, Reading, and possibly other large towns, were within that
knew, but whether north, south, east, or west I had no idea. For that
where was the place? I was ten miles or so from Eyford, that was all I
what were they doing living in this strange, out-of-the-way place? And
uneasiness began to steal over me. Who were these German people, and
passage, but otherwise everything was deadly still. A vague feeling of
silent house. There was an old clock ticking loudly somewhere in the
shutter, heavily barred, was folded across it. It was a wonderfully
hoping that I might catch some glimpse of the country-side, but an oak
others being volumes of poetry. Then I walked across to the window,
German I could see that two of them were treatises on science, the
“I glanced at the books upon the table, and in spite of my ignorance of

waiting an instant,’ said he, and vanished into the darkness.
on the top of a harmonium beside the door. ‘I shall not keep you
several German books were scattered. Colonel Stark laid down the lamp
plainly furnished room, with a round table in the centre, on which
minutes,’ said he, throwing open another door. It was a quiet, little,
“‘Perhaps you will have the kindness to wait in this room for a few

walked towards me again with the lamp in his hand.
and then, pushing her back into the room from whence she had come, he
her hand. Colonel Stark went up to her, whispered something in her ear,
gruff monosyllable she gave such a start that the lamp nearly fell from
tone as though asking a question, and when my companion answered in a
was a rich material. She spoke a few words in a foreign tongue in a
the gloss with which the light shone upon her dark dress I knew that it
forward and peering at us. I could see that she was pretty, and from
lamp in her hand, which she held above her head, pushing her face
shot out in our direction. It grew broader, and a woman appeared with a
opened at the other end of the passage, and a long, golden bar of light
looking for matches and muttering under his breath. Suddenly a door
“It was pitch dark inside the house, and the colonel fumbled about

drove away.
behind us, and I heard faintly the rattle of the wheels as the carriage
instant that I had crossed the threshold the door slammed heavily
failed to catch the most fleeting glance of the front of the house. The
as it were, right out of the carriage and into the hall, so that I
pulled me swiftly into a porch which gaped in front of us. We stepped,
stand. Colonel Lysander Stark sprang out, and, as I followed after him,
the crisp smoothness of a gravel-drive, and the carriage came to a
flagged. At last, however, the bumping of the road was exchanged for
the colonel answered only in monosyllables, and the conversation soon
then I hazarded some remark to break the monotony of the journey, but
out nothing save the occasional bright blur of a passing light. Now and
where we were, but they were made of frosted glass, and I could make
jolted terribly. I tried to look out of the windows to see something of
to be not very good in that part of the world, for we lurched and
that he was looking at me with great intensity. The country roads seem
time, and I was aware, more than once when I glanced in his direction,
must have been nearer twelve. He sat at my side in silence all the
the rate that we seemed to go, and from the time that we took, that it
Stark had said that it was only seven miles, but I should think, from
“Away we went then, and we drove for at least an hour. Colonel Lysander

interesting statement.”
“Thank you. I am sorry to have interrupted you. Pray continue your most

“Oh, fresh and glossy.”

“Tired-looking or fresh?”

carriage. It was a chestnut.”
“Yes, I saw it by the side-lights when I was stepping into the

“Did you observe the colour?”

“Yes, only one.”

“One horse?” interjected Holmes.

fast as the horse could go.”
windows on either side, tapped on the wood-work, and away we went as
into a carriage, the door of which was standing open. He drew up the
upon the other side. Without a word he grasped my arm and hurried me
however, I found my acquaintance of the morning waiting in the shadow
sleepy porter with a lantern. As I passed out through the wicket gate,
who got out there, and there was no one upon the platform save a single
little dim-lit station after eleven o’clock. I was the only passenger
However, I was in time for the last train to Eyford, and I reached the
“At Reading I had to change not only my carriage but my station.

having obeyed to the letter the injunction as to holding my tongue.
winds, ate a hearty supper, drove to Paddington, and started off,
should tell anyone of my errand. However, I threw all fears to the
necessity for my coming at midnight, and his extreme anxiety lest I
explanation of the fuller’s-earth was sufficient to explain the
made an unpleasant impression upon me, and I could not think that his
other ones. On the other hand, the face and manner of my patron had
upon my own services, and it was possible that this order might lead to
fee was at least tenfold what I should have asked had I set a price
been intrusted to me. On the one hand, of course, I was glad, for the
astonished, as you may both think, at this sudden commission which had
“Well, when I came to think it all over in cool blood I was very much

hurried from the room.
questioning gaze, and then, pressing my hand in a cold, dank grasp, he
“‘And not a word to a soul.’ He looked at me with a last long,

“‘I shall certainly be there.’

He rose as he spoke. ‘I shall expect you, then, at Eyford at 11:15.’
confidence now, Mr. Hatherley, and I have shown you how I trust you.’
are. But that is a mere detail. I have taken you fully into my
earth into bricks, so as to remove them without revealing what they
“‘Ah!’ said he carelessly, ‘we have our own process. We compress the

gravel from a pit.’
excavating fuller’s-earth, which, as I understand, is dug out like
understand was what use you could make of a hydraulic press in
“‘I quite follow you,’ said I. ‘The only point which I could not quite

to-night. I hope that I make it all plain?’
me that you will not tell a human being that you are going to Eyford
fields and carrying out our plans. That is why I have made you promise
the facts came out, it would be good-bye to any chance of getting these
coming to our little house, it would soon rouse inquiry, and then, if
however, and if it once became known that we had hydraulic engineers
your advice upon the subject. We guard our secret very jealously,
press, as I have already explained, has got out of order, and we wish
order to help us in our operations we erected a hydraulic press. This
neighbouring fields. This we have now been doing for some time, and in
this way we should earn the money which would enable us to buy the
should quietly and secretly work our own little deposit and that in
of my friends into the secret, however, and they suggested that we
unfortunately I had no capital by which I could do this. I took a few
interest to buy their land before they discovered its true value, but
which was quite as valuable as a gold-mine. Naturally, it was to my
good people were absolutely ignorant that their land contained that
and left—both of them, however, in the grounds of my neighbours. These
that it formed a link between two very much larger ones upon the right
however, I found that this deposit was a comparatively small one, and
a deposit of fuller’s-earth in one of my fields. On examining it,
ten miles of Reading. I was fortunate enough to discover that there was
“‘Some little time ago I bought a small place—a very small place—within

“‘I have heard so.’

or two places in England?’
fuller’s-earth is a valuable product, and that it is only found in one
“‘Then the matter stands thus. You are probably aware that

“‘Entirely.’

suppose that we are absolutely safe from eavesdroppers?’
commit you to anything without your having it all laid before you. I
exacted from you should have aroused your curiosity. I have no wish to
“‘Quite so. It is very natural that the pledge of secrecy which we have

more clearly what it is that you wish me to do.’
myself to your wishes. I should like, however, to understand a little
to me. ‘Not at all,’ said I, ‘I shall be very happy to accommodate
“I thought of the fifty guineas, and of how very useful they would be

business, there is plenty of time to do so.’
your profession. Still, of course, if you would like to draw out of the
unknown man, a fee which would buy an opinion from the very heads of
you for any inconvenience that we are paying to you, a young and
“‘We have judged it best that you should come late. It is to recompense

“‘That is very awkward. Could I not come at some more convenient hour?’

“‘Yes, we could easily give you a shake-down.’

be no chance of a train back. I should be compelled to stop the night.’
“‘Then we can hardly get there before midnight. I suppose there would

miles from Eyford Station.’
“‘Yes, our little place is quite out in the country. It is a good seven

“‘There is a drive, then?’

“‘I shall come down in a carriage to meet you.’

“‘Very good.’

Paddington which would bring you there at about 11:15.’
Oxfordshire, and within seven miles of Reading. There is a train from
“‘To Eyford, in Berkshire. It is a little place near the borders of

“‘Where to?’

“‘Precisely so. We shall want you to come to-night by the last train.’

“‘The work appears to be light and the pay munificent.’

right ourselves. What do you think of such a commission as that?’
got out of gear. If you show us what is wrong we shall soon set it
simply want your opinion about a hydraulic stamping machine which has
“‘I say a night’s work, but an hour’s would be nearer the mark. I

“‘Most admirably.’

“‘How would fifty guineas for a night’s work suit you?’ he asked.

my lips.
value.’ Heaven forgive me for that last sentence, but the words came to
“‘I beg that you will state your business, sir,’ said I; ‘my time is of

impatience.
dread of losing a client could not restrain me from showing my
rise within me at the strange antics of this fleshless man. Even my
“A feeling of repulsion, and of something akin to fear had begun to

me again with the same questioning and thoughtful look.
safety.’ He drew up his chair very close to mine and began to stare at
sometimes curious as to their master’s affairs. Now we can talk in
“‘That’s all right,’ said he, coming back. ‘I know that clerks are

the room he flung open the door. The passage outside was empty.
“‘Very good.’ He suddenly sprang up, and darting like lightning across

“‘I have already given you my word.’

to the matter at all, either in word or writing?’
“‘Absolute and complete silence before, during, and after? No reference

“‘Yes, I promise.’

“‘Do you promise, then?’ said he at last.

never seen so suspicious and questioning an eye.
“He looked very hard at me as I spoke, and it seemed to me that I had

upon my doing so.’
“‘If I promise to keep a secret,’ said I, ‘you may absolutely depend

the bosom of his family.’
may expect that more from a man who is alone than from one who lives in
is quite essential—absolute secrecy, you understand, and of course we
point. I have a professional commission for you, but absolute secrecy
“‘Undoubtedly so. But you will find that all I say is really to the

you wished to speak to me?’
qualifications. I understand that it was on a professional matter that
that I cannot see how all this bears upon my professional
“‘That is quite correct,’ I answered; ‘but you will excuse me if I say

and a bachelor and are residing alone in London.’
this moment. I have it from the same source that you are both an orphan
“‘Well, perhaps it is better that I should not tell you that just at

address. ‘May I ask who it was who gave me so good a character?’
“I bowed, feeling as flattered as any young man would at such an

preserving a secret.’
proficient in his profession but is also discreet and capable of
been recommended to me, Mr. Hatherley, as being a man who is not only
“‘Mr. Hatherley?’ said he, with something of a German accent. ‘You have

thirty.
neatly dressed, and his age, I should judge, would be nearer forty than
bright, his step brisk, and his bearing assured. He was plainly but
seemed to be his natural habit, and due to no disease, for his eye was
drawn quite tense over his outstanding bones. Yet this emaciation
face sharpened away into nose and chin, and the skin of his cheeks was
thinness. I do not think that I have ever seen so thin a man. His whole
himself, a man rather over the middle size, but of an exceeding
Lysander Stark’ engraved upon it. Close at his heels came the colonel
upon business. He brought up a card, too, with the name of ‘Colonel
clerk entered to say there was a gentleman waiting who wished to see me
“Yesterday, however, just as I was thinking of leaving the office, my

all.
to sink, and I came to believe that I should never have any practice at
the afternoon, I waited in my little den, until at last my heart began
amount to £ 27 10_s_. Every day, from nine in the morning until four in
absolutely all that my profession has brought me. My gross takings
years I have had three consultations and one small job, and that is
a dreary experience. To me it has been exceptionally so. During two
“I suppose that everyone finds his first independent start in business

chambers in Victoria Street.
determined to start in business for myself and took professional
come into a fair sum of money through my poor father’s death, I
of Greenwich. Two years ago, having served my time, and having also
years that I was apprenticed to Venner & Matheson, the well-known firm,
and I have had considerable experience of my work during the seven
alone in lodgings in London. By profession I am a hydraulic engineer,
“You must know,” said he, “that I am an orphan and a bachelor, residing

detailed to us.
and we listened in silence to the strange story which our visitor
which veiled his keen and eager nature, while I sat opposite to him,
Holmes sat in his big armchair with the weary, heavy-lidded expression

shall start at once upon my peculiar experiences.”
cure. I shall take up as little of your valuable time as possible, so I
doctor bandaged me, and I think that your breakfast has completed the
“Thank you,” said my patient, “but I have felt another man since the

your strength with a little stimulant.”
at home. Tell us what you can, but stop when you are tired and keep up
Hatherley,” said he. “Pray, lie down there and make yourself absolutely
“It is easy to see that your experience has been no common one, Mr.

brandy and water within his reach.
upon the sofa, placed a pillow beneath his head, and laid a glass of
in a hearty meal. When it was concluded he settled our new acquaintance
quietly genial fashion, ordered fresh rashers and eggs, and joined us
collected on the corner of the mantelpiece. He received us in his
dottles left from his smokes of the day before, all carefully dried and
his before-breakfast pipe, which was composed of all the plugs and
his dressing-gown, reading the agony column of _The Times_ and smoking
Sherlock Holmes was, as I expected, lounging about his sitting-room in

acquaintance to Baker Street.
and in five minutes was inside a hansom, driving with my new
instant.” I rushed upstairs, explained the matter shortly to my wife,
“Then my servant will call a cab, and I shall be with you in an

“Yes; I shall not feel easy until I have told my story.”

little breakfast with him. Do you feel equal to it?”
“We’ll call a cab and go together. We shall just be in time to have a

“I should be immensely obliged to you.”

“I’ll do better. I’ll take you round to him myself.”

him?”
use the official police as well. Would you give me an introduction to
be very glad if he would take the matter up, though of course I must
“Oh, I have heard of that fellow,” answered my visitor, “and I should

friend, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, before you go to the official police.”
desire to see solved, I should strongly recommend you to come to my
“Ha!” cried I, “if it is anything in the nature of a problem which you

be done.”
I can give them are so vague that it is a question whether justice will
with which to back it up; and, even if they believe me, the clues which
it is a very extraordinary one, and I have not much in the way of proof
wound of mine, I should be surprised if they believed my statement, for
between ourselves, if it were not for the convincing evidence of this
“Oh, no, not now. I shall have to tell my tale to the police; but,

to your nerves.”
“Perhaps you had better not speak of the matter. It is evidently trying

very weak, but I have had a good deal to go through.”
“Capital! Between your brandy and your bandage, I feel a new man. I was

“How is that?” I asked when I had finished.

wincing, though he bit his lip from time to time.
over with cotton wadding and carbolised bandages. He lay back without
I sponged the wound, cleaned it, dressed it, and finally covered it

“You horrify me.”

“Very murderous indeed.”

“What! a murderous attack?”

“By no means.”

“An accident, I presume?”

“A thing like a cleaver,” said he.

sharp instrument.”
“This has been done,” said I, examining the wound, “by a very heavy and

province.”
“It is a question of hydraulics, you see, and came within my own

“Excellent! You should have been a surgeon.”

the wrist and braced it up with a twig.”
still bleeding, so I tied one end of my handkerchief very tightly round
been senseless for a long time. When I came to I found that it was
“Yes, it did. I fainted when it was done, and I think that I must have

considerably.”
“Good heavens!” I cried, “this is a terrible injury. It must have bled

been. It had been hacked or torn right out from the roots.
fingers and a horrid red, spongy surface where the thumb should have
hardened nerves a shudder to look at it. There were four protruding
He unwound the handkerchief and held out his hand. It gave even my

attend to my thumb, or rather to the place where my thumb used to be.”
“That’s better!” said he. “And now, Doctor, perhaps you would kindly

colour began to come back to his bloodless cheeks.
“Not at all. Drink this.” I dashed some brandy into the water, and the

“I have been making a fool of myself,” he gasped.

pale-looking.
over and gone. Presently he came to himself once more, very weary and
outbursts which come upon a strong nature when some great crisis is
It was useless, however. He was off in one of those hysterical

water from a caraffe.
“Stop it!” I cried; “pull yourself together!” and I poured out some

that laugh.
chair and shaking his sides. All my medical instincts rose up against
laughed very heartily, with a high, ringing note, leaning back in his
“Oh, my night could not be called monotonous,” said he, and laughed. He

occupation.”
a night journey, I understand, which is in itself a monotonous
waiting,” said I, sitting down in my library-chair. “You are fresh from
and abode of my morning visitor. “I regret that I have kept you
engineer, 16A, Victoria Street (3rd floor).” That was the name, style,
I took it up and glanced at it. “Mr. Victor Hatherley, hydraulic

card, but I see that she has left it upon the side-table.”
doctor, a worthy fellow very kindly escorted me here. I gave the maid a
morning, and on inquiring at Paddington as to where I might find a
a very serious accident during the night. I came in by train this
“I am sorry to knock you up so early, Doctor,” said he, “but I have had

all his strength of mind to control.
of a man who was suffering from some strong agitation, which it took
masculine face; but he was exceedingly pale and gave me the impression
was young, not more than five-and-twenty, I should say, with a strong,
handkerchief wrapped, which was mottled all over with bloodstains. He
which he had laid down upon my books. Round one of his hands he had a
He was quietly dressed in a suit of heather tweed with a soft cloth cap
I entered my consulting-room and found a gentleman seated by the table.

he went, this trusty tout, without even giving me time to thank him.
must go now, Doctor; I have my dooties, just the same as you.” And off
myself; then he couldn’t slip away. There he is, all safe and sound. I
“It’s a new patient,” he whispered. “I thought I’d bring him round

strange creature which he had caged up in my room.
“What is it, then?” I asked, for his manner suggested that it was some

“he’s all right.”
“I’ve got him here,” he whispered, jerking his thumb over his shoulder;

guard, came out of the room and closed the door tightly behind him.
trivial, and hastened downstairs. As I descended, my old ally, the
hurriedly, for I knew by experience that railway cases were seldom
Paddington and were waiting in the consulting-room. I dressed
maid tapping at the door to announce that two men had come from
One morning, at a little before seven o’clock, I was awakened by the

influence.
endeavouring to send me on every sufferer over whom he might have any
lingering disease, was never weary of advertising my virtues and of
among the officials. One of these, whom I had cured of a painful and
very great distance from Paddington Station, I got a few patients from
us. My practice had steadily increased, and as I happened to live at no
persuaded him to forgo his Bohemian habits so far as to come and visit
rooms, although I continually visited him and occasionally even
civil practice and had finally abandoned Holmes in his Baker Street
events occurred which I am now about to summarise. I had returned to
It was in the summer of ’89, not long after my marriage, that the

to weaken the effect.
deep impression upon me, and the lapse of two years has hardly served
leads on to the complete truth. At the time the circumstances made a
clears gradually away as each new discovery furnishes a step which
when the facts slowly evolve before your own eyes, and the mystery
striking when set forth _en bloc_ in a single half-column of print than
newspapers, but, like all such narratives, its effect is much less
results. The story has, I believe, been told more than once in the
deductive methods of reasoning by which he achieved such remarkable
upon record, even if it gave my friend fewer openings for those
dramatic in its details that it may be the more worthy of being placed
original observer, but the other was so strange in its inception and so
these the latter may have afforded a finer field for an acute and
of Mr. Hatherley’s thumb, and that of Colonel Warburton’s madness. Of
were only two which I was the means of introducing to his notice—that
Sherlock Holmes, for solution during the years of our intimacy, there
Of all the problems which have been submitted to my friend, Mr.

IX. THE ADVENTURE OF THE ENGINEER’S THUMB



conscience.”
death, and I cannot say that it is likely to weigh very heavily upon my
way I am no doubt indirectly responsible for Dr. Grimesby Roylott’s
snakish temper, so that it flew upon the first person it saw. In this
other side. Some of the blows of my cane came home and roused its
“And also with the result of causing it to turn upon its master at the

“With the result of driving it through the ventilator.”

the light and attacked it.”
creature hiss as I have no doubt that you did also, and I instantly lit
steps which I took in order to put the matter to the proof. I heard the
upon its terrible occupant. Having once made up my mind, you know the
obviously caused by her stepfather hastily closing the door of his safe
may have remained. The metallic clang heard by Miss Stoner was
and the loop of whipcord were enough to finally dispel any doubts which
should reach the ventilator. The sight of the safe, the saucer of milk,
standing on it, which of course would be necessary in order that he
inspection of his chair showed me that he had been in the habit of
“I had come to these conclusions before ever I had entered his room. An

sooner or later she must fall a victim.
bite the occupant, perhaps she might escape every night for a week, but
would crawl down the rope and land on the bed. It might or might not
ventilator at the hour that he thought best, with the certainty that it
saw, to return to him when summoned. He would put it through this
the victim. He had trained it, probably by the use of the milk which we
course he must recall the snake before the morning light revealed it to
the poison fangs had done their work. Then I thought of the whistle. Of
could distinguish the two little dark punctures which would show where
of view, be an advantage. It would be a sharp-eyed coroner, indeed, who
with which such a poison would take effect would also, from his point
clever and ruthless man who had had an Eastern training. The rapidity
discovered by any chemical test was just such a one as would occur to a
The idea of using a form of poison which could not possibly be
creatures from India, I felt that I was probably on the right track.
with my knowledge that the doctor was furnished with a supply of
The idea of a snake instantly occurred to me, and when I coupled it
a bridge for something passing through the hole and coming to the bed.
floor, instantly gave rise to the suspicion that the rope was there as
discovery that this was a dummy, and that the bed was clamped to the
this ventilator, and to the bell-rope which hung down to the bed. The
My attention was speedily drawn, as I have already remarked to you, to
occupant of the room could not come either from the window or the door.
when, however, it became clear to me that whatever danger threatened an
can only claim the merit that I instantly reconsidered my position
her match, were sufficient to put me upon an entirely wrong scent. I
appearance which she had caught a hurried glimpse of by the light of
‘band,’ which was used by the poor girl, no doubt, to explain the
insufficient data. The presence of the gipsies, and the use of the word
shows, my dear Watson, how dangerous it always is to reason from
“I had,” said he, “come to an entirely erroneous conclusion which

back next day.
to learn of the case was told me by Sherlock Holmes as we travelled
indiscreetly playing with a dangerous pet. The little which I had yet
inquiry came to the conclusion that the doctor met his fate while
care of her good aunt at Harrow, of how the slow process of official
to the terrified girl, how we conveyed her by the morning train to the
already run to too great a length by telling how we broke the sad news
Moran. It is not necessary that I should prolong a narrative which has
Such are the true facts of the death of Dr. Grimesby Roylott, of Stoke

which he closed upon it.
perch and, carrying it at arm’s length, threw it into the iron safe,
throwing the noose round the reptile’s neck he drew it from its horrid
As he spoke he drew the dog-whip swiftly from the dead man’s lap, and

police know what has happened.”
can then remove Miss Stoner to some place of shelter and let the county
digs for another. Let us thrust this creature back into its den, and we
recoil upon the violent, and the schemer falls into the pit which he
has died within ten seconds of being bitten. Violence does, in truth,
“It is a swamp adder!” cried Holmes; “the deadliest snake in India. He

diamond-shaped head and puffed neck of a loathsome serpent.
move, and there reared itself from among his hair the squat
I took a step forward. In an instant his strange headgear began to

“The band! the speckled band!” whispered Holmes.

his head. As we entered he made neither sound nor motion.
band, with brownish speckles, which seemed to be bound tightly round
the corner of the ceiling. Round his brow he had a peculiar yellow
was cocked upward and his eyes were fixed in a dreadful, rigid stare at
stock with the long lash which we had noticed during the day. His chin
thrust into red heelless Turkish slippers. Across his lap lay the short
grey dressing-gown, his bare ankles protruding beneath, and his feet
table, on the wooden chair, sat Dr. Grimesby Roylott clad in a long
light upon the iron safe, the door of which was ajar. Beside this
dark-lantern with the shutter half open, throwing a brilliant beam of
It was a singular sight which met our eyes. On the table stood a

pistol in my hand.
he turned the handle and entered, I at his heels, with the cocked
Twice he struck at the chamber door without any reply from within. Then
With a grave face he lit the lamp and led the way down the corridor.

Roylott’s room.”
all, it is for the best. Take your pistol, and we will enter Dr.
“It means that it is all over,” Holmes answered. “And perhaps, after

“What can it mean?” I gasped.

away into the silence from which it rose.
gazing at Holmes, and he at me, until the last echoes of it had died
sleepers from their beds. It struck cold to our hearts, and I stood
village, and even in the distant parsonage, that cry raised the
mingled in the one dreadful shriek. They say that away down in the
up louder and louder, a hoarse yell of pain and fear and anger all
night the most horrible cry to which I have ever listened. It swelled
up at the ventilator when suddenly there broke from the silence of the
filled with horror and loathing. He had ceased to strike and was gazing
so savagely. I could, however, see that his face was deadly pale and
made it impossible for me to tell what it was at which my friend lashed
low, clear whistle, but the sudden glare flashing into my weary eyes
But I saw nothing. At the moment when Holmes struck the light I heard a

“You see it, Watson?” he yelled. “You see it?”

his cane at the bell-pull.
Holmes sprang from the bed, struck a match, and lashed furiously with
steam escaping continually from a kettle. The instant that we heard it,
audible—a very gentle, soothing sound, like that of a small jet of
hour I sat with straining ears. Then suddenly another sound became
all was silent once more, though the smell grew stronger. For half an
had lit a dark-lantern. I heard a gentle sound of movement, and then
strong smell of burning oil and heated metal. Someone in the next room
of the ventilator, which vanished immediately, but was succeeded by a
Suddenly there was the momentary gleam of a light up in the direction

still we sat waiting silently for whatever might befall.
seemed, those quarters! Twelve struck, and one and two and three, and
parish clock, which boomed out every quarter of an hour. How long they
was indeed at liberty. Far away we could hear the deep tones of the
very window a long drawn catlike whine, which told us that the cheetah
From outside came the occasional cry of a night-bird, and once at our

light, and we waited in absolute darkness.
tension in which I was myself. The shutters cut off the least ray of
open-eyed, within a few feet of me, in the same state of nervous
not even the drawing of a breath, and yet I knew that my companion sat
How shall I ever forget that dreadful vigil? I could not hear a sound,

Then he turned down the lamp, and we were left in darkness.
beside him. By it he laid the box of matches and the stump of a candle.
Holmes had brought up a long thin cane, and this he placed upon the bed

I took out my revolver and laid it on the corner of the table.

you in that chair.”
ready in case we should need it. I will sit on the side of the bed, and
“Do not go asleep; your very life may depend upon it. Have your pistol

I nodded again.

“We must sit without light. He would see it through the ventilator.”

I nodded to show that I had heard.

“The least sound would be fatal to our plans.”

I could do to distinguish the words:
his hand, he whispered into my ear again so gently that it was all that
seen it in the daytime. Then creeping up to me and making a trumpet of
onto the table, and cast his eyes round the room. All was as we had
bedroom. My companion noiselessly closed the shutters, moved the lamp
Holmes’ example and slipping off my shoes, I found myself inside the
moment. I confess that I felt easier in my mind when, after following
cheetah, too; perhaps we might find it upon our shoulders at any
I had forgotten the strange pets which the Doctor affected. There was a

“It is a nice household,” he murmured. “That is the baboon.”

his lips to my ear.
upon my wrist in his agitation. Then he broke into a low laugh and put
Holmes was for the moment as startled as I. His hand closed like a vice

“My God!” I whispered; “did you see it?”

darkness.
with writhing limbs and then ran swiftly across the lawn into the
to be a hideous and distorted child, who threw itself upon the grass
window when out from a clump of laurel bushes there darted what seemed
reached the lawn, crossed it, and were about to enter through the
breaches gaped in the old park wall. Making our way among the trees, we
There was little difficulty in entering the grounds, for unrepaired

sombre errand.
light twinkling in front of us through the gloom to guide us on our
out on the dark road, a chill wind blowing in our faces, and one yellow
possible that we might spend the night there. A moment later we were
that we were going on a late visit to an acquaintance, and that it was
As we passed out he exchanged a few words with the landlord, explaining

from the middle window.”
“That is our signal,” said Holmes, springing to his feet; “it comes

light shone out right in front of us.
away, and then, suddenly, just at the stroke of eleven, a single bright
was dark in the direction of the Manor House. Two hours passed slowly
About nine o’clock the light among the trees was extinguished, and all

for a few hours to something more cheerful.”
over; for goodness’ sake let us have a quiet pipe and turn our minds
deeper still. But we shall have horrors enough before the night is
even deeper, but I think, Watson, that we shall be able to strike
Pritchard were among the heads of their profession. This man strikes
the first of criminals. He has nerve and he has knowledge. Palmer and
“Subtle enough and horrible enough. When a doctor does go wrong he is

only just in time to prevent some subtle and horrible crime.”
“Holmes,” I cried, “I seem to see dimly what you are hinting at. We are

it, since it was clearly never meant for a bell-pull.”
relative position to the ventilator and to the rope—or so we may call
“The lady could not move her bed. It must always be in the same

“I cannot say that I have.”

before?”
“It was clamped to the floor. Did you ever see a bed fastened like that

“No.”

“Did you observe anything very peculiar about that bed?”

“I cannot as yet see any connection.”

not that strike you?”
is made, a cord is hung, and a lady who sleeps in the bed dies. Does
“Well, there is at least a curious coincidence of dates. A ventilator

“But what harm can there be in that?”

inquiry. I deduced a ventilator.”
be a small one, or it would have been remarked upon at the coroner’s
that there must be a communication between the two rooms. It could only
could smell Dr. Roylott’s cigar. Now, of course that suggested at once
“Oh, yes, I did. You remember in her statement she said that her sister

“My dear Holmes!”

Moran.”
“I knew that we should find a ventilator before ever we came to Stoke

hardly pass through.”
small opening between two rooms. It was so small that a rat could
“Yes, but I do not think that it is such a very unusual thing to have a

“You saw the ventilator, too?”

could answer I confess is more than I can imagine.”
“I saw nothing remarkable save the bell-rope, and what purpose that

you saw all that I did.”
“No, but I fancy that I may have deduced a little more. I imagine that

was visible to me.”
“You speak of danger. You have evidently seen more in these rooms than

“It is very kind of you.”

“Then I shall certainly come.”

“Your presence might be invaluable.”

“Can I be of assistance?”

is a distinct element of danger.”
darkness, “I have really some scruples as to taking you to-night. There
“Do you know, Watson,” said Holmes as we sat together in the gathering

up among the trees as the lamp was lit in one of the sitting-rooms.
The trap drove on, and a few minutes later we saw a sudden light spring
voice and saw the fury with which he shook his clinched fists at him.
the heavy iron gates, and we heard the hoarse roar of the Doctor’s
of the lad who drove him. The boy had some slight difficulty in undoing
Roylott drive past, his huge form looming up beside the little figure
inhabited wing of Stoke Moran Manor House. At dusk we saw Dr. Grimesby
our window we could command a view of the avenue gate, and of the
sitting-room at the Crown Inn. They were on the upper floor, and from
Sherlock Holmes and I had no difficulty in engaging a bedroom and

that we shall soon drive away the dangers that threaten you.”
be brave, for if you will do what I have told you, you may rest assured
Roylott returned and saw us our journey would be in vain. Good-bye, and
tangible cause. And now, Miss Stoner, we must leave you for if Dr.
“No, I do not think so. I think that there was probably some more

died from some sudden fright.”
“You can at least tell me whether my own thought is correct, and if she

“I should prefer to have clearer proofs before I speak.”

death.”
“Then, for pity’s sake, tell me what was the cause of my sister’s

“Perhaps I have.”

Miss Stoner, laying her hand upon my companion’s sleeve.
“I believe, Mr. Holmes, that you have already made up your mind,” said

cause of this noise which has disturbed you.”
“We shall spend the night in your room, and we shall investigate the

“But what will you do?”

“The rest you will leave in our hands.”

“Oh, yes, easily.”

there for one night.”
occupy. I have no doubt that, in spite of the repairs, you could manage
everything which you are likely to want into the room which you used to
your lamp there as a signal to us, and then withdraw quietly with
night, you must open the shutters of your window, undo the hasp, put
when your stepfather comes back. Then when you hear him retire for the
“You must confine yourself to your room, on pretence of a headache,

“Certainly.”

“Very good. Your windows would be visible from there?”

“Yes, that is the Crown.”

inn over there?”
“Yes, it must be so. Let me explain. I believe that that is the village

Both Miss Stoner and I gazed at him in astonishment.

room.”
“In the first place, both my friend and I must spend the night in your

“I assure you that I am in your hands.”

upon your compliance.”
“The matter is too serious for any hesitation. Your life may depend

“I shall most certainly do so.”

absolutely follow my advice in every respect.”
“It is very essential, Miss Stoner,” said he, “that you should

reverie.
liking to break in upon his thoughts before he roused himself from his
several times up and down the lawn, neither Miss Stoner nor myself
when we turned from the scene of this investigation. We had walked
I had never seen my friend’s face so grim or his brow so dark as it was

permission we shall walk out upon the lawn.”
think that I have seen enough now, Miss Stoner, and with your
when a clever man turns his brains to crime it is the worst of all. I
“That is not quite so common, is it? Ah, me! it’s a wicked world, and

“It’s a common enough lash. But I don’t know why it should be tied.”

“What do you make of that, Watson?”

so as to make a loop of whipcord.
corner of the bed. The lash, however, was curled upon itself and tied
The object which had caught his eye was a small dog lash hung on one

lens in his pocket. “Hullo! Here is something interesting!”
“Thank you. That is quite settled,” said he, rising and putting his

greatest attention.
in front of the wooden chair and examined the seat of it with the
There is one point which I should wish to determine.” He squatted down
saucer of milk does not go very far in satisfying its wants, I daresay.
“Ah, yes, of course! Well, a cheetah is just a big cat, and yet a

“No; we don’t keep a cat. But there is a cheetah and a baboon.”

the top of it.
“Well, look at this!” He took up a small saucer of milk which stood on

“No. What a strange idea!”

“There isn’t a cat in it, for example?”

“Only once, some years ago. I remember that it was full of papers.”

“Oh! you have seen inside, then?”

“My stepfather’s business papers.”

“What’s in here?” he asked, tapping the safe.

keenest interest.
Holmes walked slowly round and examined each and all of them with the
and a large iron safe were the principal things which met the eye.
beside the bed, a plain wooden chair against the wall, a round table,
shelf full of books, mostly of a technical character, an armchair
step-daughter, but was as plainly furnished. A camp-bed, a small wooden
Dr. Grimesby Roylott’s chamber was larger than that of his

inner apartment.”
permission, Miss Stoner, we shall now carry our researches into the
bell-ropes, and ventilators which do not ventilate. With your
“They seem to have been of a most interesting character—dummy

“Yes, there were several little changes carried out about that time.”

“Done about the same time as the bell-rope?” remarked Holmes.

“That is also quite modern,” said the lady.

same trouble, he might have communicated with the outside air!”
builder must be to open a ventilator into another room, when, with the
two very singular points about this room. For example, what a fool a
“Very strange!” muttered Holmes, pulling at the rope. “There are one or

“How very absurd! I never noticed that before.”

opening for the ventilator is.”
can see now that it is fastened to a hook just above where the little
“No, it is not even attached to a wire. This is very interesting. You

“Won’t it ring?”

“Why, it’s a dummy,” said he.

Finally he took the bell-rope in his hand and gave it a brisk tug.
some time in staring at it and in running his eye up and down the wall.
the chamber was panelled. Finally he walked over to the bed and spent
between the boards. Then he did the same with the wood-work with which
and crawled swiftly backward and forward, examining minutely the cracks
floor.” He threw himself down upon his face with his lens in his hand
will excuse me for a few minutes while I satisfy myself as to this
“Indeed, it seemed unnecessary to put so nice a bell-pull there. You

wanted for ourselves.”
“No, I never heard of her using it. We used always to get what we

“Your sister asked for it, I suppose?”

“Yes, it was only put there a couple of years ago.”

“It looks newer than the other things?”

“It goes to the housekeeper’s room.”

lying upon the pillow.
thick bell-rope which hung down beside the bed, the tassel actually
“Where does that bell communicate with?” he asked at last pointing to a

every detail of the apartment.
while his eyes travelled round and round and up and down, taking in
the house. Holmes drew one of the chairs into a corner and sat silent,
and discoloured that it may have dated from the original building of
and the panelling of the walls were of brown, worm-eaten oak, so old
room save for a square of Wilton carpet in the centre. The boards round
with two small wicker-work chairs, made up all the furniture in the
dressing-table on the left-hand side of the window. These articles,
one corner, a narrow white-counterpaned bed in another, and a
the fashion of old country-houses. A brown chest of drawers stood in
homely little room, with a low ceiling and a gaping fireplace, after
sleeping, and in which her sister had met with her fate. It was a
we passed at once to the second, that in which Miss Stoner was now
three bedrooms opened. Holmes refused to examine the third chamber, so
A small side door led into the whitewashed corridor from which the

matter.”
were bolted. Well, we shall see if the inside throws any light upon the
presents some difficulties. No one could pass these shutters if they
said he, scratching his chin in some perplexity, “my theory certainly
they were of solid iron, built firmly into the massive masonry. “Hum!”
passed to raise the bar. Then with his lens he tested the hinges, but
without success. There was no slit through which a knife could be
open window, endeavoured in every way to force the shutter open, but
Miss Stoner did so, and Holmes, after a careful examination through the

and bar your shutters?”
from that side. Now, would you have the kindness to go into your room
“As you both locked your doors at night, your rooms were unapproachable

“Yes, but very small ones. Too narrow for anyone to pass through.”

in it, of course?”
runs the corridor from which these three rooms open. There are windows
“Ah! that is suggestive. Now, on the other side of this narrow wing

room.”
“There were none. I believe that it was an excuse to move me from my

seem to be any very pressing need for repairs at that end wall.”
“Pending the alterations, as I understand. By the way, there does not

“Exactly so. But I am now sleeping in the middle one.”

Dr. Roylott’s chamber?”
centre one to your sister’s, and the one next to the main building to
“This, I take it, belongs to the room in which you used to sleep, the

attention the outsides of the windows.
walked slowly up and down the ill-trimmed lawn and examined with deep
there were no signs of any workmen at the moment of our visit. Holmes
against the end wall, and the stone-work had been broken into, but
this was where the family resided. Some scaffolding had been erected
windows, with the blue smoke curling up from the chimneys, showed that
right-hand block was comparatively modern, and the blinds in the
ruin. The central portion was in little better repair, but the
with wooden boards, while the roof was partly caved in, a picture of
each side. In one of these wings the windows were broken and blocked
portion and two curving wings, like the claws of a crab, thrown out on
The building was of grey, lichen-blotched stone, with a high central

at once to the rooms which we are to examine.”
Harrow. Now, we must make the best use of our time, so kindly take us
to-night. If he is violent, we shall take you away to your aunt’s at
cunning than himself upon his track. You must lock yourself up from him
“He must guard himself, for he may find that there is someone more

he say when he returns?”
“He is so cunning that I never know when I am safe from him. What will

“So it appears.”

“Good heavens!” she cried, “he has followed me, then.”

Stoner turned white to the lips as she listened.
Holmes, and in a few words he sketched out what had occurred. Miss
“We have had the pleasure of making the Doctor’s acquaintance,” said

before evening.”
Dr. Roylott has gone to town, and it is unlikely that he will be back
cried, shaking hands with us warmly. “All has turned out splendidly.
which spoke her joy. “I have been waiting so eagerly for you,” she
Our client of the morning had hurried forward to meet us with a face

that we have been as good as our word.”
business. It may stop his gossip. Good-afternoon, Miss Stoner. You see
fellow should think we had come here as architects, or on some definite
“I thought it as well,” said Holmes as we climbed the stile, “that this

Leatherhead.
We got off, paid our fare, and the trap rattled back on its way to

eyes. “Yes, I think we had better do as you suggest.”
“And the lady, I fancy, is Miss Stoner,” observed Holmes, shading his

fields. There it is, where the lady is walking.”
find it shorter to get over this stile, and so by the footpath over the
some distance to the left; “but if you want to get to the house, you’ll
“There’s the village,” said the driver, pointing to a cluster of roofs

are going.”
“There is some building going on there,” said Holmes; “that is where we

driver.
“Yes, sir, that be the house of Dr. Grimesby Roylott,” remarked the

“Stoke Moran?” said he.

the grey gables and high roof-tree of a very old mansion.
a grove at the highest point. From amid the branches there jutted out
A heavily timbered park stretched up in a gentle slope, thickening into

“Look there!” said he.

over the meadows.
Suddenly, however, he started, tapped me on the shoulder, and pointed
eyes, and his chin sunk upon his breast, buried in the deepest thought.
the front of the trap, his arms folded, his hat pulled down over his
and this sinister quest upon which we were engaged. My companion sat in
there was a strange contrast between the sweet promise of the spring
air was full of the pleasant smell of the moist earth. To me at least
wayside hedges were just throwing out their first green shoots, and the
bright sun and a few fleecy clouds in the heavens. The trees and
miles through the lovely Surrey lanes. It was a perfect day, with a
where we hired a trap at the station inn and drove for four or five
At Waterloo we were fortunate in catching a train for Leatherhead,

tooth-brush are, I think, all that we need.”
with gentlemen who can twist steel pokers into knots. That and a
revolver into your pocket. An Eley’s No. 2 is an excellent argument
drive to Waterloo. I should be very much obliged if you would slip your
ourselves in his affairs; so if you are ready, we shall call a cab and
dawdling, especially as the old man is aware that we are interesting
of anything of the sort. And now, Watson, this is too serious for
proved that he has the very strongest motives for standing in the way
serious extent. My morning’s work has not been wasted, since it has
mere pittance, while even one of them would cripple him to a very
therefore, that if both girls had married, this beauty would have had a
claim an income of £ 250, in case of marriage. It is evident,
the fall in agricultural prices, not more than £ 750. Each daughter can
time of the wife’s death was little short of £ 1,100, is now, through
investments with which it is concerned. The total income, which at the
exact meaning I have been obliged to work out the present prices of the
“I have seen the will of the deceased wife,” said he. “To determine its

with notes and figures.
excursion. He held in his hand a sheet of blue paper, scrawled over
It was nearly one o’clock when Sherlock Holmes returned from his

matter.”
Commons, where I hope to get some data which may help us in this
shall order breakfast, and afterwards I shall walk down to Doctors’
her imprudence in allowing this brute to trace her. And now, Watson, we
however, and I only trust that our little friend will not suffer from
detective force! This incident gives zest to our investigation,
“Fancy his having the insolence to confound me with the official

the steel poker and, with a sudden effort, straightened it out again.
grip was not much more feeble than his own.” As he spoke he picked up
quite so bulky, but if he had remained I might have shown him that my
“He seems a very amiable person,” said Holmes, laughing. “I am not

the twisted poker into the fireplace he strode out of the room.
“See that you keep yourself out of my grip,” he snarled, and hurling

seized the poker, and bent it into a curve with his huge brown hands.
dangerous man to fall foul of! See here.” He stepped swiftly forward,
affairs. I know that Miss Stoner has been here. I traced her! I am a
“I will go when I have had my say. Don’t you dare to meddle with my

draught.”
said he. “When you go out close the door, for there is a decided
Holmes chuckled heartily. “Your conversation is most entertaining,”

“Holmes, the Scotland Yard Jack-in-office!”

His smile broadened.

“Holmes, the busybody!”

My friend smiled.

have heard of you before. You are Holmes, the meddler.”
forward and shaking his hunting-crop. “I know you, you scoundrel! I
“Ha! You put me off, do you?” said our new visitor, taking a step

companion imperturbably.
“But I have heard that the crocuses promise well,” continued my

“What has she been saying to you?” screamed the old man furiously.

“It is a little cold for the time of the year,” said Holmes.

traced her. What has she been saying to you?”
“I will do nothing of the kind. My stepdaughter has been here. I have

“Indeed, Doctor,” said Holmes blandly. “Pray take a seat.”

“I am Dr. Grimesby Roylott, of Stoke Moran.”

quietly.
“My name, sir; but you have the advantage of me,” said my companion

“Which of you is Holmes?” asked this apparition.

of prey.
fleshless nose, gave him somewhat the resemblance to a fierce old bird
other of us, while his deep-set, bile-shot eyes, and his high, thin,
the sun, and marked with every evil passion, was turned from one to the
side. A large face, seared with a thousand wrinkles, burned yellow with
the doorway, and his breadth seemed to span it across from side to
his hand. So tall was he that his hat actually brushed the cross bar of
frock-coat, and a pair of high gaiters, with a hunting-crop swinging in
professional and of the agricultural, having a black top-hat, a long
himself in the aperture. His costume was a peculiar mixture of the
door had been suddenly dashed open, and that a huge man had framed
The ejaculation had been drawn from my companion by the fact that our

or if they may be explained away. But what in the name of the devil!”
Stoke Moran this day. I want to see whether the objections are fatal,
“And so do I. It is precisely for that reason that we are going to

“I see many objections to any such theory.”

“I cannot imagine.”

“But what, then, did the gipsies do?”

those lines.”
there is good ground to think that the mystery may be cleared along
that secured the shutters falling back into its place, I think that
metallic clang, which might have been caused by one of those metal bars
to a band, and, finally, the fact that Miss Helen Stoner heard a
interest in preventing his stepdaughter’s marriage, the dying allusion
fact that we have every reason to believe that the doctor has an
band of gipsies who are on intimate terms with this old doctor, the
“When you combine the ideas of whistles at night, the presence of a

“I cannot think.”

peculiar words of the dying woman?”
“What becomes, then, of these nocturnal whistles, and what of the very

end.”
sister must have been undoubtedly alone when she met her mysterious
sound, and that the door, window, and chimney are impassable, then her
“Yet if the lady is correct in saying that the flooring and walls are

“Dark enough and sinister enough.”

“It seems to me to be a most dark and sinister business.”

leaning back in his chair.
“And what do you think of it all, Watson?” asked Sherlock Holmes,

from the room.
afternoon.” She dropped her thick black veil over her face and glided
trouble to you. I shall look forward to seeing you again this
“No, I must go. My heart is lightened already since I have confided my

business matters to attend to. Will you not wait and breakfast?”
“And you may expect us early in the afternoon. I have myself some small

in time for your coming.”
town. But I shall return by the twelve o’clock train, so as to be there
“I have one or two things which I would wish to do now that I am in

“Then we shall both come. What are you going to do yourself?”

“By no means.”

“Excellent. You are not averse to this trip, Watson?”

but she is old and foolish, and I could easily get her out of the way.”
that there would be nothing to disturb you. We have a housekeeper now,
important business. It is probable that he will be away all day, and
“As it happens, he spoke of coming into town to-day upon some most

without the knowledge of your stepfather?”
Stoke Moran to-day, would it be possible for us to see over these rooms
of action. Yet we have not a moment to lose. If we were to come to
details which I should desire to know before I decide upon our course
“This is a very deep business,” he said at last. “There are a thousand

hands and stared into the crackling fire.
There was a long silence, during which Holmes leaned his chin upon his

hard man,” she said, “and perhaps he hardly knows his own strength.”
The lady coloured deeply and covered over her injured wrist. “He is a

“You have been cruelly used,” said Holmes.

marks of four fingers and a thumb, were printed upon the white wrist.
hand that lay upon our visitor’s knee. Five little livid spots, the
For answer Holmes pushed back the frill of black lace which fringed the

“Why, what do you mean?”

“Miss Roylott, you have not. You are screening your stepfather.”

“Yes, all.”

“You have done wisely,” said my friend. “But have you told me all?”

you and asking your advice.”
from whence I have come on this morning with the one object of seeing
dog-cart at the Crown Inn, which is opposite, and drove to Leatherhead,
so I dressed, and as soon as it was daylight I slipped down, got a
to be seen in the room. I was too shaken to go to bed again, however,
herald of her own death. I sprang up and lit the lamp, but nothing was
heard in the silence of the night the low whistle which had been the
night, as I lay awake, thinking over her terrible fate, I suddenly
bed in which she slept. Imagine, then, my thrill of terror when last
move into the chamber in which my sister died, and to sleep in the very
building, and my bedroom wall has been pierced, so that I have had to
spring. Two days ago some repairs were started in the west wing of the
opposition to the match, and we are to be married in the course of the
Armitage, of Crane Water, near Reading. My stepfather has offered no
marriage. His name is Armitage—Percy Armitage—the second son of Mr.
known for many years, has done me the honour to ask my hand in
lonelier than ever. A month ago, however, a dear friend, whom I have
“Two years have passed since then, and my life has been until lately

narrative.”
“These are very deep waters,” said he; “pray go on with your

Holmes shook his head like a man who is far from being satisfied.

suggested the strange adjective which she used.”
handkerchiefs which so many of them wear over their heads might have
these very gipsies in the plantation. I do not know whether the spotted
sometimes that it may have referred to some band of people, perhaps to
“Sometimes I have thought that it was merely the wild talk of delirium,

band?”
“Ah, and what did you gather from this allusion to a band—a speckled

“Yes, there are nearly always some there.”

“Were there gipsies in the plantation at the time?”

what it was that frightened her I cannot imagine.”
“It is my belief that she died of pure fear and nervous shock, though

“What do you think that this unfortunate lady died of, then?”

“The doctors examined her for it, but without success.”

“How about poison?”

her.”
she met her end. Besides, there were no marks of any violence upon
staples. It is certain, therefore, that my sister was quite alone when
the same result. The chimney is wide, but is barred up by four large
solid all round, and the flooring was also thoroughly examined, with
night. The walls were carefully sounded, and were shown to be quite
old-fashioned shutters with broad iron bars, which were secured every
fastened upon the inner side, and the windows were blocked by
satisfactory cause of death. My evidence showed that the door had been
had long been notorious in the county, but he was unable to find any
“He investigated the case with great care, for Dr. Roylott’s conduct

coroner come to?”
alarm took place. That is important. And what conclusions did the
“Showing that she had struck a light and looked about her when the

charred stump of a match, and in her left a match-box.”
“No, she was in her night-dress. In her right hand was found the

“Was your sister dressed?”

and the creaking of an old house, I may possibly have been deceived.”
strong impression that I heard it, and yet, among the crash of the gale
“That was what the county coroner asked me at the inquiry. It is my

metallic sound? Could you swear to it?”
“One moment,” said Holmes, “are you sure about this whistle and

end of my beloved sister.”
died without having recovered her consciousness. Such was the dreadful
from the village, all efforts were in vain, for she slowly sank and
and though he poured brandy down her throat and sent for medical aid
dressing-gown. When he reached my sister’s side she was unconscious,
loudly for my stepfather, and I met him hastening from his room in his
fresh convulsion seized her and choked her words. I rushed out, calling
her finger into the air in the direction of the Doctor’s room, but a
was something else which she would fain have said, and she stabbed with
forget, ‘Oh, my God! Helen! It was the band! The speckled band!’ There
bent over her she suddenly shrieked out in a voice which I shall never
convulsed. At first I thought that she had not recognised me, but as I
writhed as one who is in terrible pain, and her limbs were dreadfully
moment her knees seemed to give way and she fell to the ground. She
of a drunkard. I ran to her and threw my arms round her, but at that
hands groping for help, her whole figure swaying to and fro like that
saw my sister appear at the opening, her face blanched with terror, her
what was about to issue from it. By the light of the corridor-lamp I
slowly upon its hinges. I stared at it horror-stricken, not knowing
As I ran down the passage, my sister’s door was unlocked, and revolved
few moments later a clanging sound, as if a mass of metal had fallen.
door I seemed to hear a low whistle, such as my sister described, and a
wrapped a shawl round me, and rushed into the corridor. As I opened my
woman. I knew that it was my sister’s voice. I sprang from my bed,
hubbub of the gale, there burst forth the wild scream of a terrified
was beating and splashing against the windows. Suddenly, amid all the
allied. It was a wild night. The wind was howling outside, and the rain
know how subtle are the links which bind two souls which are so closely
impressed me. My sister and I, you will recollect, were twins, and you
“I could not sleep that night. A vague feeling of impending misfortune

“Quite so. Pray proceed with your statement.”

baboon. We had no feeling of security unless our doors were locked.”
“I think that I mentioned to you that the Doctor kept a cheetah and a

“And why?”

“Always.”

at night?”
“Indeed,” said Holmes. “Was it your custom always to lock yourselves in

lock.”
me, closed my door, and a few moments later I heard her key turn in the
“‘Well, it is of no great consequence, at any rate.’ She smiled back at

“‘Ah, but I sleep more heavily than you.’

not hear it also.’
“‘Very likely. And yet if it were on the lawn, I wonder that you did

“‘No, I have not. It must be those wretched gipsies in the plantation.’

whether you had heard it.’
room, perhaps from the lawn. I thought that I would just ask you
awakened me. I cannot tell where it came from—perhaps from the next
morning, heard a low, clear whistle. I am a light sleeper, and it has
“‘Because during the last few nights I have always, about three in the

“‘Certainly not. But why?’

sleep?’
“‘I suppose that you could not possibly whistle, yourself, in your

“‘Never,’ said I.

dead of the night?’
“‘Tell me, Helen,’ said she, ‘have you ever heard anyone whistle in the

leave me, but she paused at the door and looked back.
chatting about her approaching wedding. At eleven o’clock she rose to
room, therefore, and came into mine, where she sat for some time,
strong Indian cigars which it was his custom to smoke. She left her
had not retired to rest, for my sister was troubled by the smell of the
night Dr. Roylott had gone to his room early, though we knew that he
“The windows of the three rooms open out upon the lawn. That fatal

“Perfectly so.”

plain?”
them, but they all open out into the same corridor. Do I make myself
my sister’s, and the third my own. There is no communication between
the buildings. Of these bedrooms the first is Dr. Roylott’s, the second
on the ground floor, the sitting-rooms being in the central block of
old, and only one wing is now inhabited. The bedrooms in this wing are
seared into my memory. The manor-house is, as I have already said, very
“It is easy for me to be so, for every event of that dreadful time is

“Pray be precise as to details,” said he.

glanced across at his visitor.
and his head sunk in a cushion, but he half opened his lids now and
Sherlock Holmes had been leaning back in his chair with his eyes closed

terrible event occurred which has deprived me of my only companion.”
a fortnight of the day which had been fixed for the wedding, the
my sister returned and offered no objection to the marriage; but within
whom she became engaged. My stepfather learned of the engagement when
Christmas two years ago, and met there a half-pay major of marines, to
allowed to pay short visits at this lady’s house. Julia went there at
Honoria Westphail, who lives near Harrow, and we were occasionally
position. We had, however, an aunt, my mother’s maiden sister, Miss
described, we were little likely to see anyone of our own age and
speak to you. You can understand that, living the life which I have
“She died just two years ago, and it is of her death that I wish to

“Your sister is dead, then?”

as mine has.”
time of her death, and yet her hair had already begun to whiten, even
long time we did all the work of the house. She was but thirty at the
great pleasure in our lives. No servant would stay with us, and for a
“You can imagine from what I say that my poor sister Julia and I had no

villagers almost as much as their master.
a baboon, which wander freely over his grounds and are feared by the
over to him by a correspondent, and he has at this moment a cheetah and
weeks on end. He has a passion also for Indian animals, which are sent
hospitality of their tents, wandering away with them sometimes for
which represent the family estate, and would accept in return the
vagabonds leave to encamp upon the few acres of bramble-covered land
friends at all save the wandering gipsies, and he would give these
together that I was able to avert another public exposure. He had no
and it was only by paying over all the money which I could gather
“Last week he hurled the local blacksmith over a parapet into a stream,

absolutely uncontrollable in his anger.
fly at his approach, for he is a man of immense strength, and
until at last he became the terror of the village, and the folks would
disgraceful brawls took place, two of which ended in the police-court,
been intensified by his long residence in the tropics. A series of
the men of the family, and in my stepfather’s case it had, I believe,
path. Violence of temper approaching to mania has been hereditary in
out save to indulge in ferocious quarrels with whoever might cross his
the old family seat, he shut himself up in his house and seldom came
who had at first been overjoyed to see a Roylott of Stoke Moran back in
Instead of making friends and exchanging visits with our neighbours,
“But a terrible change came over our stepfather about this time.

obstacle to our happiness.
mother had left was enough for all our wants, and there seemed to be no
with him in the old ancestral house at Stoke Moran. The money which my
attempts to establish himself in practice in London and took us to live
ago in a railway accident near Crewe. Dr. Roylott then abandoned his
after our return to England my mother died—she was killed eight years
should be allowed to each of us in the event of our marriage. Shortly
while we resided with him, with a provision that a certain annual sum
than £ 1000 a year—and this she bequeathed to Dr. Roylott entirely
my mother’s re-marriage. She had a considerable sum of money—not less
Julia and I were twins, and we were only two years old at the time of
young widow of Major-General Stoner, of the Bengal Artillery. My sister
“When Dr. Roylott was in India he married my mother, Mrs. Stoner, the

disappointed man.
of imprisonment and afterwards returned to England a morose and
narrowly escaped a capital sentence. As it was, he suffered a long term
perpetrated in the house, he beat his native butler to death and
fit of anger, however, caused by some robberies which had been
skill and his force of character, he established a large practice. In a
medical degree and went out to Calcutta, where, by his professional
obtained an advance from a relative, which enabled him to take a
stepfather, seeing that he must adapt himself to the new conditions,
horrible life of an aristocratic pauper; but his only son, my
mortgage. The last squire dragged out his existence there, living the
two-hundred-year-old house, which is itself crushed under a heavy
Nothing was left save a few acres of ground, and the
was eventually completed by a gambler in the days of the Regency.
heirs were of a dissolute and wasteful disposition, and the family ruin
Hampshire in the west. In the last century, however, four successive
estates extended over the borders into Berkshire in the north, and
“The family was at one time among the richest in England, and the

Holmes nodded his head. “The name is familiar to me,” said he.

Roylotts of Stoke Moran, on the western border of Surrey.”
the last survivor of one of the oldest Saxon families in England, the
“My name is Helen Stoner, and I am living with my stepfather, who is

“I am all attention, madam.”

advise me how to walk amid the dangers which encompass me.”
see deeply into the manifold wickedness of the human heart. You may
answers and averted eyes. But I have heard, Mr. Holmes, that you can
nervous woman. He does not say so, but I can read it from his soothing
advice looks upon all that I tell him about it as the fancies of a
even he to whom of all others I have a right to look for help and
entirely upon small points, which might seem trivial to another, that
the fact that my fears are so vague, and my suspicions depend so
“Alas!” replied our visitor, “the very horror of my situation lies in

matter.”
before us everything that may help us in forming an opinion upon the
to, at the time which suits you best. And now I beg that you will lay
reward; but you are at liberty to defray whatever expenses I may be put
did to that of your friend. As to reward, my profession is its own
madam, that I shall be happy to devote the same care to your case as I
an opal tiara. I think it was before your time, Watson. I can only say,
“Farintosh,” said he. “Ah yes, I recall the case; it was concerned with

case-book, which he consulted.
Holmes turned to his desk and, unlocking it, drew out a small

me ungrateful.”
with the control of my own income, and then at least you shall not find
you for your services, but in a month or six weeks I shall be married,
darkness which surrounds me? At present it is out of my power to reward
help me, too, and at least throw a little light through the dense
her that I had your address. Oh, sir, do you not think that you could
Farintosh, whom you helped in the hour of her sore need. It was from
aid. I have heard of you, Mr. Holmes; I have heard of you from Mrs.
save only one, who cares for me, and he, poor fellow, can be of little
longer; I shall go mad if it continues. I have no one to turn to—none,
came in by the first train to Waterloo. Sir, I can stand this strain no
started from home before six, reached Leatherhead at twenty past, and
“Whatever your reasons may be, you are perfectly correct,” said she. “I

side of the driver.”
throws up mud in that way, and then only when you sit on the left-hand
marks are perfectly fresh. There is no vehicle save a dog-cart which
of your jacket is spattered with mud in no less than seven places. The
“There is no mystery, my dear madam,” said he, smiling. “The left arm

companion.
The lady gave a violent start and stared in bewilderment at my

station.”
drive in a dog-cart, along heavy roads, before you reached the
your left glove. You must have started early, and yet you had a good
“No, but I observe the second half of a return ticket in the palm of

“You know me, then?”

have come in by train this morning, I see.”
her forearm. “We shall soon set matters right, I have no doubt. You
“You must not fear,” said he soothingly, bending forward and patting

of his quick, all-comprehensive glances.
expression was weary and haggard. Sherlock Holmes ran her over with one
a woman of thirty, but her hair was shot with premature grey, and her
like those of some hunted animal. Her features and figure were those of
agitation, her face all drawn and grey, with restless frightened eyes,
spoke, and we could see that she was indeed in a pitiable state of
“It is fear, Mr. Holmes. It is terror.” She raised her veil as she

“What, then?”

changing her seat as requested.
“It is not cold which makes me shiver,” said the woman in a low voice,

you are shivering.”
to it, and I shall order you a cup of hot coffee, for I observe that
that Mrs. Hudson has had the good sense to light the fire. Pray draw up
whom you can speak as freely as before myself. Ha! I am glad to see
Holmes. This is my intimate friend and associate, Dr. Watson, before
“Good-morning, madam,” said Holmes cheerily. “My name is Sherlock

had been sitting in the window, rose as we entered.
to the sitting-room. A lady dressed in black and heavily veiled, who
my clothes and was ready in a few minutes to accompany my friend down
unravelled the problems which were submitted to him. I rapidly threw on
intuitions, and yet always founded on a logical basis with which he
investigations, and in admiring the rapid deductions, as swift as
I had no keener pleasure than in following Holmes in his professional

“My dear fellow, I would not miss it for anything.”

should call you and give you the chance.”
sure, wish to follow it from the outset. I thought, at any rate, that I
communicate. Should it prove to be an interesting case, you would, I am
I presume that it is something very pressing which they have to
this hour of the morning, and knock sleepy people up out of their beds,
the sitting-room. Now, when young ladies wander about the metropolis at
state of excitement, who insists upon seeing me. She is waiting now in
“No; a client. It seems that a young lady has arrived in a considerable

“What is it, then—a fire?”

and I on you.”
this morning. Mrs. Hudson has been knocked up, she retorted upon me,
“Very sorry to knock you up, Watson,” said he, “but it’s the common lot

regular in my habits.
surprise, and perhaps just a little resentment, for I was myself
that it was only a quarter-past seven, I blinked up at him in some
a late riser, as a rule, and as the clock on the mantelpiece showed me
Sherlock Holmes standing, fully dressed, by the side of my bed. He was
It was early in April in the year ’83 that I woke one morning to find

matter even more terrible than the truth.
rumours as to the death of Dr. Grimesby Roylott which tend to make the
come to light, for I have reasons to know that there are widespread
the pledge was given. It is perhaps as well that the facts should now
freed during the last month by the untimely death of the lady to whom
promise of secrecy was made at the time, from which I have only been
possible that I might have placed them upon record before, but a
Holmes, when we were sharing rooms as bachelors in Baker Street. It is
events in question occurred in the early days of my association with
with the well-known Surrey family of the Roylotts of Stoke Moran. The
which presented more singular features than that which was associated
the fantastic. Of all these varied cases, however, I cannot recall any
with any investigation which did not tend towards the unusual, and even
art than for the acquirement of wealth, he refused to associate himself
but none commonplace; for, working as he did rather for the love of his
Holmes, I find many tragic, some comic, a large number merely strange,
during the last eight years studied the methods of my friend Sherlock
On glancing over my notes of the seventy odd cases in which I have

VIII. THE ADVENTURE OF THE SPECKLED BAND



feature.”
another investigation, in which, also a bird will be the chief
you will have the goodness to touch the bell, Doctor, we will begin
singular and whimsical problem, and its solution is its own reward. If
it is the season of forgiveness. Chance has put in our way a most
Send him to gaol now, and you make him a gaol-bird for life. Besides,
This fellow will not go wrong again; he is too terribly frightened.
commuting a felony, but it is just possible that I am saving a soul.
not appear against him, and the case must collapse. I suppose that I am
Horner were in danger it would be another thing; but this fellow will
pipe, “I am not retained by the police to supply their deficiencies. If
“After all, Watson,” said Holmes, reaching up his hand for his clay

from the street.
stairs, the bang of a door, and the crisp rattle of running footfalls
And no more words were needed. There was a rush, a clatter upon the

“No more words. Get out!”

“What, sir! Oh, Heaven bless you!”

“Get out!” said he.

table. Then my friend rose and threw open the door.
measured tapping of Sherlock Holmes’ finger-tips upon the edge of the
There was a long silence, broken only by his heavy breathing and by the

his hands.
God help me!” He burst into convulsive sobbing, with his face buried in
having touched the wealth for which I sold my character. God help me!
myself. And now—and now I am myself a branded thief, without ever
that. My sister thinks that I am going mad. Sometimes I think that I am
heard him yourselves to-night. Well, he has always answered me like
once, and not one word would he tell me as to where they had gone. You
would carry me to this man Breckinridge; but he had sold the lot at
“Well, then, of course I saw it all, and I ran off as hard as my feet

them apart.’
“‘Yes, Jem; there were two barred-tailed ones, and I could never tell

one I chose?’
“‘But was there another with a barred tail?’ I asked, ‘the same as the

“‘Breckinridge, of Covent Garden.’

“‘Which dealer’s?’

“‘Gone to the dealer’s, Jem.’

“‘Where are they all, Maggie?’ I cried.

into the back yard. There was not a bird to be seen there.
had occurred. I left the bird, rushed back to my sister’s, and hurried
there was no sign of the stone, and I knew that some terrible mistake
we got a knife and opened the goose. My heart turned to water, for
was easy to tell a thing like that to. He laughed until he choked, and
way to Kilburn. I told my pal what I had done, for he was a man that it
“Well, I did what she said, Mr. Holmes, and I carried the bird all the

“‘Oh, very well. Kill it and take it with you.’

flock.’
“‘That white one with the barred tail, right in the middle of the

want, then?’
“‘Oh, just as you like,’ said she, a little huffed. ‘Which is it you

“‘Never mind. I’ll have the other, and I’ll take it now,’ said I.

it expressly for you.’
“‘The other is a good three pound heavier,’ said she, ‘and we fattened

rather have that one I was handling just now.’
“‘Thank you, Maggie,’ says I; ‘but if it is all the same to you, I’d

makes one for you, and one for us, and two dozen for the market.’
It’s the big white one over yonder. There’s twenty-six of them, which
“‘Oh,’ says she, ‘we’ve set yours aside for you—Jem’s bird, we call it.

feeling which was the fattest.’
“‘Well,’ said I, ‘you said you’d give me one for Christmas, and I was

“‘Whatever were you doing with that bird, Jem?’ says she.

off among the others.
matter. As I turned to speak to her the brute broke loose and fluttered
flapped and struggled, and out came my sister to know what was the
stone pass along its gullet and down into its crop. But the creature
as far as my finger could reach. The bird gave a gulp, and I felt the
caught it, and prying its bill open, I thrust the stone down its throat
I drove one of the birds—a fine big one, white, with a barred tail. I
stone to Kilburn. There was a little shed in the yard, and behind this
good as her word. I would take my goose now, and in it I would carry my
her geese for a Christmas present, and I knew that she was always as
“My sister had told me some weeks before that I might have the pick of

best detective that ever lived.
suddenly an idea came into my head which showed me how I could beat the
looking at the geese which were waddling about round my feet, and
waistcoat pocket. I was leaning against the wall at the time and
moment be seized and searched, and there would be the stone in my
agonies I had gone through in coming from the hotel. I might at any
the stone into money. But how to get to him in safety? I thought of the
he lived, and take him into my confidence. He would show me how to turn
things about him; so I made up my mind to go right on to Kilburn, where
they stole. I knew that he would be true to me, for I knew one or two
into talk about the ways of thieves, and how they could get rid of what
been serving his time in Pentonville. One day he had met me, and fell
“I had a friend once called Maudsley, who went to the bad, and has just

and smoked a pipe and wondered what it would be best to do.
upset by the jewel robbery at the hotel. Then I went into the back yard
was the matter, and why I was so pale; but I told her that I had been
down my face before I came to the Brixton Road. My sister asked me what
detective; and, for all that it was a cold night, the sweat was pouring
way there every man I met seemed to me to be a policeman or a
lived in Brixton Road, where she fattened fowls for the market. All the
I made for my sister’s house. She had married a man named Oakshott, and
hotel where it would be safe. I went out, as if on some commission, and
into their heads to search me and my room. There was no place about the
once, for I did not know at what moment the police might not take it
seemed to me that it would be best for me to get away with the stone at
as it happened, sir,” said he. “When Horner had been arrested, it
Ryder passed his tongue over his parched lips. “I will tell you it just

of safety.”
into the open market? Tell us the truth, for there lies your only hope
the next act. How came the stone into the goose, and how came the goose
“Hum! We will talk about that. And now let us hear a true account of

against him will break down.”
“I will fly, Mr. Holmes. I will leave the country, sir. Then the charge

in the dock for a crime of which he knew nothing.”
cringe and crawl now, but you thought little enough of this poor Horner
“Get back into your chair!” said Holmes sternly. “It is very well to

Oh, don’t bring it into court! For Christ’s sake, don’t!”
wrong before! I never will again. I swear it. I’ll swear it on a Bible.
my father! Of my mother! It would break their hearts. I never went
companion’s knees. “For God’s sake, have mercy!” he shrieked. “Think of
Ryder threw himself down suddenly upon the rug and clutched at my

arrested. You then—”
rifled the jewel-case, raised the alarm, and had this unfortunate man
managed that he should be the man sent for. Then, when he had left, you
small job in my lady’s room—you and your confederate Cusack—and you
rest the more readily upon him. What did you do, then? You made some
been concerned in some such matter before, and that suspicion would
pretty villain in you. You knew that this man Horner, the plumber, had
you used. It seems to me, Ryder, that there is the making of a very
better men before you; but you were not very scrupulous in the means
wealth so easily acquired was too much for you, as it has been for
“I see—her ladyship’s waiting-maid. Well, the temptation of sudden

voice.
“It was Catherine Cusack who told me of it,” said he in a crackling

heard, Ryder, of this blue stone of the Countess of Morcar’s?”
little may as well be cleared up to make the case complete. You had
possibly need, so there is little which you need tell me. Still, that
“I have almost every link in my hands, and all the proofs which I could

eyes at his accuser.
a tinge of colour into his cheeks, and he sat staring with frightened
For a moment he had staggered and nearly fallen, but the brandy brought

be sure!”
brandy. So! Now he looks a little more human. What a shrimp it is, to
got blood enough to go in for felony with impunity. Give him a dash of
be into the fire! Give him an arm back into his chair, Watson. He’s not
“The game’s up, Ryder,” said Holmes quietly. “Hold up, man, or you’ll

whether to claim or to disown it.
many-pointed radiance. Ryder stood glaring with a drawn face, uncertain
carbuncle, which shone out like a star, with a cold, brilliant,
right hand. Holmes unlocked his strong-box and held up the blue
Our visitor staggered to his feet and clutched the mantelpiece with his

in my museum.”
bonniest, brightest little blue egg that ever was seen. I have it here
should take an interest in it. It laid an egg after it was dead—the
“Yes, and a most remarkable bird it proved. I don’t wonder that you

“Here?”

“It came here.”

where it went to?”
Ryder quivered with emotion. “Oh, sir,” he cried, “can you tell me

you were interested—white, with a black bar across the tail.”
“Or rather, I fancy, of that goose. It was one bird, I imagine in which

“Yes, sir.”

became of those geese?”
settle this little matter of yours. Now, then! You want to know what
Pray take the basket-chair. I will just put on my slippers before we
fire looks very seasonable in this weather. You look cold, Mr. Ryder.
“Here we are!” said Holmes cheerily as we filed into the room. “The

his hands, spoke of the nervous tension within him.
breathing of our new companion, and the claspings and unclaspings of
Street. Nothing had been said during our drive, but the high, thin
the cab, and in half an hour we were back in the sitting-room at Baker
is on the verge of a windfall or of a catastrophe. Then he stepped into
half-frightened, half-hopeful eyes, as one who is not sure whether he
The little man stood glancing from one to the other of us with

would wish to know.”
the cab, and I shall soon be able to tell you everything which you
“Precisely so. Head attendant at the Hotel Cosmopolitan. Pray step into

he, “my real name is James Ryder.”
A flush sprang to the white cheeks of the stranger. “Well then,” said

doing business with an alias.”
“No, no; the real name,” said Holmes sweetly. “It is always awkward

answered with a sidelong glance.
The man hesitated for an instant. “My name is John Robinson,” he

is that I have the pleasure of assisting.”
market-place,” said he. “But pray tell me, before we go farther, who it
we had better discuss it in a cosy room rather than in this wind-swept
Sherlock Holmes hailed a four-wheeler which was passing. “In that case

hardly explain to you how interested I am in this matter.”
little fellow with outstretched hands and quivering fingers. “I can
“Oh, sir, you are the very man whom I have longed to meet,” cried the

by him to his club, of which Mr. Henry Baker is a member.”
named Breckinridge, by him in turn to Mr. Windigate, of the Alpha, and
geese which were sold by Mrs. Oakshott, of Brixton Road, to a salesman
“Excuse me, I know everything of it. You are endeavouring to trace some

“But you can know nothing of this?”

people don’t know.”
“My name is Sherlock Holmes. It is my business to know what other

“You? Who are you? How could you know anything of the matter?”

think that I could be of assistance to you.”
overhearing the questions which you put to the salesman just now. I
“You will excuse me,” said Holmes blandly, “but I could not help

“Who are you, then? What do you want?” he asked in a quavering voice.

that every vestige of colour had been driven from his face.
upon the shoulder. He sprang round, and I could see in the gas-light
stalls, my companion speedily overtook the little man and touched him
through the scattered knots of people who lounged round the flaring
with me, and we will see what is to be made of this fellow.” Striding
“Ha! this may save us a visit to Brixton Road,” whispered Holmes. “Come

flitted away into the darkness.
of it. Get out of this!” He rushed fiercely forward, and the inquirer
“Well, you can ask the King of Proosia, for all I care. I’ve had enough

“She told me to ask you.”

“Well, then, ask Mrs. Oakshott for it.”

“No; but one of them was mine all the same,” whined the little man.

off you?”
I’ll answer her, but what have you to do with it? Did I buy the geese
silly talk I’ll set the dog at you. You bring Mrs. Oakshott here and
all at the devil together. If you come pestering me any more with your
“I’ve had enough of you and your geese,” he shouted. “I wish you were

fiercely at the cringing figure.
salesman, framed in the door of his stall, was shaking his fists
which was thrown by the swinging lamp, while Breckinridge, the
rat-faced fellow standing in the centre of the circle of yellow light
from the stall which we had just left. Turning round we saw a little
His remarks were suddenly cut short by a loud hubbub which broke out

ourselves who are anxious about the matter, and I should—”
from what that surly fellow said that there are others besides
to-night, or whether we should reserve it for to-morrow. It is clear
to be determined is whether we should go on to this Mrs. Oakshott
fancy, nearing the end of our quest, and the only point which remains
by the idea that he was doing me on a wager. Well, Watson, we are, I
would not have given me such complete information as was drawn from him
he. “I daresay that if I had put £ 100 down in front of him, that man
protruding out of his pocket, you can always draw him by a bet,” said
“When you see a man with whiskers of that cut and the ‘Pink ’un’

was peculiar to him.
under a lamp-post and laughed in the hearty, noiseless fashion which
man whose disgust is too deep for words. A few yards off he stopped
pocket and threw it down upon the slab, turning away with the air of a
Sherlock Holmes looked deeply chagrined. He drew a sovereign from his

“What have you to say now?”

“‘Sold to Mr. Windigate of the Alpha, at 12_s_.’”

“Quite so. There you are. And underneath?”

“‘December 22nd. Twenty-four geese at 7_s_. 6_d_.’”

“Now, then, what’s the last entry?”

117, Brixton Road, egg and poultry supplier.’”
Holmes turned to the page indicated. “Here you are, ‘Mrs. Oakshott,

“Quite so. Now turn that up in the ledger.”

“Mrs. Oakshott, 117, Brixton Road—249,” read Holmes.

suppliers. Now, look at that third name. Just read it out to me.”
see this other page in red ink? Well, that is a list of my town
names are where their accounts are in the big ledger. Now, then! You
here on this page are the country folk, and the numbers after their
“That’s the list of the folk from whom I buy. D’you see? Well, then,

“Well?”

in my shop. You see this little book?”
of geese, but before I finish you’ll find that there is still one left
“Now then, Mr. Cocksure,” said the salesman, “I thought that I was out

greasy-backed one, laying them out together beneath the hanging lamp.
The small boy brought round a small thin volume and a great

The salesman chuckled grimly. “Bring me the books, Bill,” said he.

have a sovereign on with you, just to teach you not to be obstinate.”
“It’s merely taking your money, for I know that I am right. But I’ll

“Will you bet, then?”

“You’ll never persuade me to believe that.”

Alpha were town bred.”
ever since I was a nipper? I tell you, all those birds that went to the
“D’you think you know more about fowls than I, who have handled them

“I don’t believe it.”

“I say it is.”

“It’s nothing of the kind.”

salesman.
“Well, then, you’ve lost your fiver, for it’s town bred,” snapped the

bred.”
of fowls, and I have a fiver on it that the bird I ate is country
off, that is all. But I’m always ready to back my opinion on a matter
inquiries,” said Holmes carelessly. “If you won’t tell us the bet is
“Well, I have no connection with any other people who have been making

them.”
were the only geese in the world, to hear the fuss that is made over
geese to?’ and ‘What will you take for the geese?’ One would think they
business; but it’s ‘Where are the geese?’ and ‘Who did you sell the
pay good money for a good article there should be an end of the
“Warm! You’d be as warm, maybe, if you were as pestered as I am. When I

be so warm over such a trifle.”
“Oh, it is a matter of no importance; but I don’t know why you should

“Well then, I shan’t tell you. So now!”

which you supplied to the Alpha.”
“It is straight enough. I should like to know who sold you the geese

“what are you driving at? Let’s have it straight, now.”
“Now, then, mister,” said he, with his head cocked and his arms akimbo,

salesman.
To my surprise the question provoked a burst of anger from the

“Fine birds they were, too. Now where did you get them from?”

“Oh, yes; I sent him a couple of dozen.”

“The landlord of the Alpha.”

“Who by?”

“Ah, but I was recommended to you.”

“Well, there are some on the stall with the gas-flare.”

“That’s no good.”

“Let you have five hundred to-morrow morning.”

slabs of marble.
“Sold out of geese, I see,” continued Holmes, pointing at the bare

The salesman nodded and shot a questioning glance at my companion.

“Good-evening. It’s a cold night,” said Holmes.

the shutters.
with a sharp face and trim side-whiskers was helping a boy to put up
name of Breckinridge upon it, and the proprietor a horsey-looking man,
of slums to Covent Garden Market. One of the largest stalls bore the
We passed across Holborn, down Endell Street, and so through a zigzag

the south, then, and quick march!”
placed in our hands. Let us follow it out to the bitter end. Faces to
which has been missed by the police, and which a singular chance has
confirm his guilt; but, in any case, we have a line of investigation
we can establish his innocence. It is possible that our inquiry may but
other a man who will certainly get seven years’ penal servitude unless
homely a thing as a goose at one end of this chain, we have at the
came out into the frosty air. “Remember, Watson that though we have so
“Now for Mr. Breckinridge,” he continued, buttoning up his coat as we

prosperity to your house. Good-night.”
“Ah! I don’t know him. Well, here’s your good health landlord, and

“Breckinridge is his name.”

“Indeed? I know some of them. Which was it?”

“Well, I got the two dozen from a salesman in Covent Garden.”

“Indeed! Whose, then?”

“Ah! yes, I see. But you see, sir, them’s not _our_ geese.”

a member of your goose club.”
“Yes. I was speaking only half an hour ago to Mr. Henry Baker, who was

“My geese!” The man seemed surprised.

he.
“Your beer should be excellent if it is as good as your geese,” said

glasses of beer from the ruddy-faced, white-aproned landlord.
Holborn. Holmes pushed open the door of the private bar and ordered two
public-house at the corner of one of the streets which runs down into
hour we were in Bloomsbury at the Alpha Inn, which is a small
and so through Wigmore Street into Oxford Street. In a quarter of an
we swung through the doctors’ quarter, Wimpole Street, Harley Street,
like so many pistol shots. Our footfalls rang out crisply and loudly as
cloudless sky, and the breath of the passers-by blew out into smoke
about our throats. Outside, the stars were shining coldly in a
It was a bitter night, so we drew on our ulsters and wrapped cravats

“By all means.”

this clue while it is still hot.”
“Then I suggest that we turn our dinner into a supper and follow up

“Not particularly.”

the matter. Are you hungry, Watson?”
behind him. “It is quite certain that he knows nothing whatever about
“So much for Mr. Henry Baker,” said Holmes when he had closed the door

strode off upon his way.
With a comical pomposity of manner he bowed solemnly to both of us and
sir, for a Scotch bonnet is fitted neither to my years nor my gravity.”
duly paid, and the rest is familiar to you. I am much indebted to you,
every week, we were each to receive a bird at Christmas. My pence were
instituted a goose club, by which, on consideration of some few pence
day, you understand. This year our good host, Windigate by name,
Inn, near the Museum—we are to be found in the Museum itself during the
property under his arm. “There are a few of us who frequent the Alpha
“Certainly, sir,” said Baker, who had risen and tucked his newly gained

goose.”
somewhat of a fowl fancier, and I have seldom seen a better grown
would it bore you to tell me where you got the other one from? I am
“There is your hat, then, and there your bird,” said he. “By the way,

shoulders.
Sherlock Holmes glanced sharply across at me with a slight shrug of his

attentions to the excellent bird which I perceive upon the sideboard.”
to me. No, sir, I think that, with your permission, I will confine my
what use the _disjecta membra_ of my late acquaintance are going to be
relics of my adventure,” said he, “but beyond that I can hardly see
The man burst into a hearty laugh. “They might be useful to me as

own bird, so if you wish—”
“Of course, we still have the feathers, legs, crop, and so on of your

“Oh, certainly, certainly,” answered Mr. Baker with a sigh of relief.

well?”
same weight and perfectly fresh, will answer your purpose equally
presume that this other goose upon the sideboard, which is about the
“Yes, it would have been of no use to anyone had we not done so. But I

“To eat it!” Our visitor half rose from his chair in his excitement.

it.”
“Very naturally. By the way, about the bird, we were compelled to eat

recovering them.”
bird. I did not care to spend more money in a hopeless attempt at
the gang of roughs who assaulted me had carried off both my hat and the
plentiful with me as they once were,” he remarked. “I had no doubt that
Our visitor gave a rather shamefaced laugh. “Shillings have not been so

a loss to know now why you did not advertise.”
expected to see an advertisement from you giving your address. I am at
“We have retained these things for some days,” said Holmes, “because we

letters who had had ill-usage at the hands of fortune.
care, and gave the impression generally of a man of learning and
or shirt. He spoke in a slow staccato fashion, choosing his words with
and his lank wrists protruded from his sleeves without a sign of cuff
frock-coat was buttoned right up in front, with the collar turned up,
hand, recalled Holmes’ surmise as to his habits. His rusty black
touch of red in nose and cheeks, with a slight tremor of his extended
intelligent face, sloping down to a pointed beard of grizzled brown. A
He was a large man with rounded shoulders, a massive head, and a broad,

“Yes, sir, that is undoubtedly my hat.”

time. Is that your hat, Mr. Baker?”
summer than for winter. Ah, Watson, you have just come at the right
cold night, and I observe that your circulation is more adapted for
readily assume. “Pray take this chair by the fire, Mr. Baker. It is a
greeting his visitor with the easy air of geniality which he could so
“Mr. Henry Baker, I believe,” said he, rising from his armchair and

and we were shown up together to Holmes’ room.
was thrown from the fanlight. Just as I arrived the door was opened,
buttoned up to his chin waiting outside in the bright semicircle which
house I saw a tall man in a Scotch bonnet with a coat which was
when I found myself in Baker Street once more. As I approached the
I had been delayed at a case, and it was a little after half-past six

Hudson to examine its crop.”
By the way, in view of recent occurrences, perhaps I ought to ask Mrs.
“Very glad to see you. I dine at seven. There is a woodcock, I believe.

to see the solution of so tangled a business.”
back in the evening at the hour you have mentioned, for I should like
“In that case I shall continue my professional round. But I shall come

“Nothing.”

“And you can do nothing until then?”

to our advertisement.”
however, I shall determine by a very simple test if we have an answer
of considerably more value than if it were made of solid gold. That,
innocent man, who had no idea that the bird which he was carrying was
“It is, I think, much more likely that Henry Baker is an absolutely

anything to do with the matter?”
“Well, then, do you imagine that this other one, Henry Baker, had

“I cannot tell.”

“Do you think that this man Horner is innocent?”

the Countess to say that we have it.”
and the prison? I’ll lock it up in my strong box now and drop a line to
Who would think that so pretty a toy would be a purveyor to the gallows
about for the sake of this forty-grain weight of crystallised charcoal.
murders, a vitriol-throwing, a suicide, and several robberies brought
of its youth, it has already a sinister history. There have been two
carbuncle, save that it is blue in shade instead of ruby red. In spite
southern China and is remarkable in having every characteristic of the
yet twenty years old. It was found in the banks of the Amoy River in
older jewels every facet may stand for a bloody deed. This stone is not
Every good stone is. They are the devil’s pet baits. In the larger and
glints and sparkles. Of course it is a nucleus and focus of crime.
against the light. “It’s a bonny thing,” said he. “Just see how it
When the commissionaire had gone, Holmes took up the stone and held it

family is now devouring.”
have one to give to this gentleman in place of the one which your
buy a goose on your way back and leave it here with me, for we must
“Ah, yes, I shall keep the stone. Thank you. And, I say, Peterson, just

“Very well, sir. And this stone?”

_Evening News_, _Standard_, _Echo_, and any others that occur to you.”
“Oh, in the _Globe_, _Star_, _Pall Mall_, _St. James’s Gazette_,

“In which, sir?”

papers.”
down to the advertising agency and have this put in the evening
knows him will direct his attention to it. Here you are, Peterson, run
introduction of his name will cause him to see it, for everyone who
impulse which caused him to drop his bird. Then, again, the
nothing but flight, but since then he must have bitterly regretted the
breaking the window and by the approach of Peterson that he thought of
the loss was a heavy one. He was clearly so scared by his mischance in
“Well, he is sure to keep an eye on the papers, since, to a poor man,

“Very. But will he see it?”

Street.’ That is clear and concise.”
can have the same by applying at 6:30 this evening at 221B, Baker
corner of Goodge Street, a goose and a black felt hat. Mr. Henry Baker
“Give me a pencil and that slip of paper. Now, then: ‘Found at the

“What will you say?”

have recourse to other methods.”
in an advertisement in all the evening papers. If this fail, I shall
this, we must try the simplest means first, and these lie undoubtedly
ascertaining what part he has played in this little mystery. To do
must set ourselves very seriously to finding this gentleman and
all the other characteristics with which I have bored you. So now we
the goose came from Mr. Henry Baker, the gentleman with the bad hat and
innocent aspect. Here is the stone; the stone came from the goose, and
deductions have suddenly assumed a much more important and less
goose in Tottenham Court Road at the other. You see, Watson, our little
events leading from a rifled jewel-case at one end to the crop of a
aside the paper. “The question for us now to solve is the sequence of
“Hum! So much for the police-court,” said Holmes thoughtfully, tossing

and was carried out of court.”
intense emotion during the proceedings, fainted away at the conclusion
offence, but referred it to the Assizes. Horner, who had shown signs of
against the prisoner, the magistrate refused to deal summarily with the
terms. Evidence of a previous conviction for robbery having been given
struggled frantically, and protested his innocence in the strongest
Bradstreet, B division, gave evidence as to the arrest of Horner, who
where she found matters as described by the last witness. Inspector
dismay on discovering the robbery, and to having rushed into the room,
Cusack, maid to the Countess, deposed to having heard Ryder’s cry of
could not be found either upon his person or in his rooms. Catherine
gave the alarm, and Horner was arrested the same evening; but the stone
her jewel, was lying empty upon the dressing-table. Ryder instantly
which, as it afterwards transpired, the Countess was accustomed to keep
bureau had been forced open, and that the small morocco casket in
away. On returning, he found that Horner had disappeared, that the
remained with Horner some little time, but had finally been called
might solder the second bar of the grate, which was loose. He had
of the Countess of Morcar upon the day of the robbery in order that he
evidence to the effect that he had shown Horner up to the dressing-room
the blue carbuncle. James Ryder, upper-attendant at the hotel, gave his
from the jewel-case of the Countess of Morcar the valuable gem known as
brought up upon the charge of having upon the 22nd inst., abstracted
“Hotel Cosmopolitan Jewel Robbery. John Horner, 26, plumber, was

following paragraph:
until at last he smoothed one out, doubled it over, and read the
believe.” He rummaged amid his newspapers, glancing over the dates,
been referred to the Assizes. I have some account of the matter here, I
jewel-case. The evidence against him was so strong that the case has
plumber, was accused of having abstracted it from the lady’s
“Precisely so, on December 22nd, just five days ago. John Horner, a

remarked.
“It was lost, if I remember aright, at the Hotel Cosmopolitan,” I

gem.”
Countess to part with half her fortune if she could but recover the
sentimental considerations in the background which would induce the
“That is the reward, and I have reason to know that there are

down into a chair and stared from one to the other of us.
“A thousand pounds! Great Lord of mercy!” The commissionaire plumped

the market price.”
reward offered of £ 1000 is certainly not within a twentieth part of
absolutely unique, and its value can only be conjectured, but the
read the advertisement about it in _The Times_ every day lately. It is
“Precisely so. I ought to know its size and shape, seeing that I have

“Not the Countess of Morcar’s blue carbuncle!” I ejaculated.

“It’s more than a precious stone. It is _the_ precious stone.”

putty.”
“A diamond, sir? A precious stone. It cuts into glass as though it were

“this is treasure trove indeed. I suppose you know what you have got?”
Sherlock Holmes sat up with a whistle. “By Jove, Peterson!” said he,

dark hollow of his hand.
such purity and radiance that it twinkled like an electric point in the
scintillating blue stone, rather smaller than a bean in size, but of
hand and displayed upon the centre of the palm a brilliantly
“See here, sir! See what my wife found in its crop!” He held out his

a fairer view of the man’s excited face.
the kitchen window?” Holmes twisted himself round upon the sofa to get
“Eh? What of it, then? Has it returned to life and flapped off through

“The goose, Mr. Holmes! The goose, sir!” he gasped.

flushed cheeks and the face of a man who is dazed with astonishment.
and Peterson, the commissionaire, rushed into the apartment with
Sherlock Holmes had opened his mouth to reply, when the door flew open,

loss of a goose, all this seems to be rather a waste of energy.”
just now, there has been no crime committed, and no harm done save the
“Well, it is very ingenious,” said I, laughing; “but since, as you said

a gas-jet. Are you satisfied?”
guttering candle in the other. Anyhow, he never got tallow-stains from
tallow—walks upstairs at night probably with his hat in one hand and a
individual must be brought into frequent contact with burning
less than five, I think that there can be little doubt that the
“One tallow stain, or even two, might come by chance; but when I see no

the gas is not laid on in his house?”
“You have an answer to everything. But how on earth do you deduce that

Remember the card upon the bird’s leg.”
“Nay, he was bringing home the goose as a peace-offering to his wife.

“But he might be a bachelor.”

have been unfortunate enough to lose your wife’s affection.”
wife allows you to go out in such a state, I shall fear that you also
Watson, with a week’s accumulation of dust upon your hat, and when your
“This hat has not been brushed for weeks. When I see you, my dear

“But his wife—you said that she had ceased to love him.”

training.”
perspired very freely, and could therefore, hardly be in the best of
marks of moisture upon the inside are proof positive that the wearer
showing that it has been hung up indoors most of the time, while the
gritty, grey dust of the street but the fluffy brown dust of the house,
distinct odour of lime-cream. This dust, you will observe, is not the
scissors of the barber. They all appear to be adhesive, and there is a
The lens discloses a large number of hair-ends, clean cut by the
be gathered from a close examination of the lower part of the lining.
that it has been recently cut, and that he uses lime-cream, are all to
“The further points, that he is middle-aged, that his hair is grizzled,

“Your reasoning is certainly plausible.”

that he has not entirely lost his self-respect.”
of these stains upon the felt by daubing them with ink, which is a sign
weakening nature. On the other hand, he has endeavoured to conceal some
less foresight now than formerly, which is a distinct proof of a
elastic and has not troubled to replace it, it is obvious that he has
precaution against the wind. But since we see that he has broken the
certain amount of foresight, since he went out of his way to take this
never sold upon hats. If this man ordered one, it is a sign of a
finger upon the little disc and loop of the hat-securer. “They are
Sherlock Holmes laughed. “Here is the foresight,” said he putting his

the moral retrogression?”
“Well, that is clear enough, certainly. But how about the foresight and

has assuredly gone down in the world.”
so expensive a hat three years ago, and has had no hat since, then he
ribbed silk and the excellent lining. If this man could afford to buy
in then. It is a hat of the very best quality. Look at the band of
“This hat is three years old. These flat brims curled at the edge came

“The decline of his fortunes, then?”

something in it.”
cubic capacity,” said he; “a man with so large a brain must have
forehead and settled upon the bridge of his nose. “It is a question of
For answer Holmes clapped the hat upon his head. It came right over the

intellectual?”
unable to follow you. For example, how did you deduce that this man was
“I have no doubt that I am very stupid, but I must confess that I am

results, you are unable to see how they are attained?”
“Not in the least. Is it possible that even now, when I give you these

“You are certainly joking, Holmes.”

improbable that he has gas laid on in his house.”
to be deduced from his hat. Also, by the way, that it is extremely
he anoints with lime-cream. These are the more patent facts which are
grizzled hair which he has had cut within the last few days, and which
goes out little, is out of training entirely, is middle-aged, has
disregarding my remonstrance. “He is a man who leads a sedentary life,
“He has, however, retained some degree of self-respect,” he continued,

“My dear Holmes!”

has ceased to love him.”
work upon him. This may account also for the obvious fact that his wife
fortunes, seems to indicate some evil influence, probably drink, at
to a moral retrogression, which, when taken with the decline of his
evil days. He had foresight, but has less now than formerly, pointing
well-to-do within the last three years, although he has now fallen upon
of course obvious upon the face of it, and also that he was fairly
strong balance of probability. That the man was highly intellectual is
which are very distinct, and a few others which represent at least a
might have been,” he remarked, “and yet there are a few inferences
which was characteristic of him. “It is perhaps less suggestive than it
He picked it up and gazed at it in the peculiar introspective fashion

“Then, pray tell me what it is that you can infer from this hat?”

inferences.”
reason from what you see. You are too timid in drawing your
“On the contrary, Watson, you can see everything. You fail, however, to

“I can see nothing,” said I, handing it back to my friend.

discoloured patches by smearing them with ink.
places, although there seemed to have been some attempt to hide the
the rest, it was cracked, exceedingly dusty, and spotted in several
pierced in the brim for a hat-securer, but the elastic was missing. For
had remarked, the initials “H. B.” were scrawled upon one side. It was
was a good deal discoloured. There was no maker’s name; but, as Holmes
hard and much the worse for wear. The lining had been of red silk, but
ruefully. It was a very ordinary black hat of the usual round shape,
I took the tattered object in my hands and turned it over rather

to the individuality of the man who has worn this article?”
“Here is my lens. You know my methods. What can you gather yourself as

“But you are joking. What can you gather from this old battered felt?”

“Precisely.”

“From his hat?”

“Only as much as we can deduce.”

“Then, what clue could you have as to his identity?”

“No.”

“Did he not advertise?”

hat of the unknown gentleman who lost his Christmas dinner.”
fulfil the ultimate destiny of a goose, while I continue to retain the
without unnecessary delay. Its finder has carried it off, therefore, to
spite of the slight frost, it would be well that it should be eaten
goose we retained until this morning, when there were signs that, in
knowing that even the smallest problems are of interest to me. The
“He brought round both hat and goose to me on Christmas morning,

“What, then, did Peterson do?”

to restore lost property to any one of them.”
and some hundreds of Henry Bakers in this city of ours, it is not easy
upon the lining of this hat, but as there are some thousands of Bakers,
left leg, and it is also true that the initials ‘H. B.’ are legible
Henry Baker’ was printed upon a small card which was tied to the bird’s
“My dear fellow, there lies the problem. It is true that ‘For Mrs.

“Which surely he restored to their owner?”

most unimpeachable Christmas goose.”
also of the spoils of victory in the shape of this battered hat and a
Peterson, so that he was left in possession of the field of battle, and
Tottenham Court Road. The roughs had also fled at the appearance of
vanished amid the labyrinth of small streets which lie at the back of
uniform rushing towards him, dropped his goose, took to his heels, and
having broken the window, and seeing an official-looking person in
to protect the stranger from his assailants; but the man, shocked at
head, smashed the shop window behind him. Peterson had rushed forward
which he raised his stick to defend himself and, swinging it over his
little knot of roughs. One of the latter knocked off the man’s hat, on
corner of Goodge Street, a row broke out between this stranger and a
carrying a white goose slung over his shoulder. As he reached the
saw, in the gaslight, a tallish man, walking with a slight stagger, and
making his way homeward down Tottenham Court Road. In front of him he
very honest fellow, was returning from some small jollification and was
four o’clock on Christmas morning, Peterson, who, as you know, is a
at this moment in front of Peterson’s fire. The facts are these: about
in company with a good fat goose, which is, I have no doubt, roasting
And, first, as to how it came here. It arrived upon Christmas morning,
upon it not as a battered billycock but as an intellectual problem.
“No, no, he found it. Its owner is unknown. I beg that you will look

“It is his hat.”

“It is to him that this trophy belongs.”

“Yes.”

the commissionaire?”
matter will fall into the same innocent category. You know Peterson,
the man with the twisted lip. Well, I have no doubt that this small
to the singular case of Miss Mary Sutherland, and to the adventure of
“Precisely. You allude to my attempt to recover the Irene Adler papers,

added to my notes, three have been entirely free of any legal crime.”
“So much so,” I remarked, “that of the last six cases which I have

such.”
bizarre without being criminal. We have already had experience of
many a little problem will be presented which may be striking and
every possible combination of events may be expected to take place, and
miles. Amid the action and reaction of so dense a swarm of humanity,
human beings all jostling each other within the space of a few square
whimsical little incidents which will happen when you have four million
“No, no. No crime,” said Sherlock Holmes, laughing. “Only one of those

punishment of some crime.”
the clue which will guide you in the solution of some mystery and the
it looks, this thing has some deadly story linked on to it—that it is
thick with the ice crystals. “I suppose,” I remarked, “that, homely as
crackling fire, for a sharp frost had set in, and the windows were
I seated myself in his armchair and warmed my hands before his

it which are not entirely devoid of interest and even of instruction.”
the direction of the old hat—“but there are points in connection with
results. The matter is a perfectly trivial one”—he jerked his thumb in
“Not at all. I am glad to have a friend with whom I can discuss my

“You are engaged,” said I; “perhaps I interrupt you.”

purpose of examination.
suggested that the hat had been suspended in this manner for the
several places. A lens and a forceps lying upon the seat of the chair
disreputable hard-felt hat, much the worse for wear, and cracked in
was a wooden chair, and on the angle of the back hung a very seedy and
morning papers, evidently newly studied, near at hand. Beside the couch
pipe-rack within his reach upon the right, and a pile of crumpled
the season. He was lounging upon the sofa in a purple dressing-gown, a
after Christmas, with the intention of wishing him the compliments of
I had called upon my friend Sherlock Holmes upon the second morning

VII. THE ADVENTURE OF THE BLUE CARBUNCLE



Street we shall just be in time for breakfast.”
consuming an ounce of shag. I think, Watson, that if we drive to Baker
“I reached this one,” said my friend, “by sitting upon five pillows and

the matter up. I wish I knew how you reach your results.”
Mr. Holmes, that we are very much indebted to you for having cleared
taken. But if you are found again, then all must come out. I am sure,
“In that case I think that it is probable that no further steps may be

“I have sworn it by the most solemn oaths which a man can take.”

hush this thing up, there must be no more of Hugh Boone.”
“It must stop here, however,” said Bradstreet. “If the police are to

“Many times; but what was a fine to me?”

it. But have you never been prosecuted for begging?”
“That was it,” said Holmes, nodding approvingly; “I have no doubt of

forgot all about it for some days.”
unobserved. Probably he handed it to some sailor customer of his, who
I can quite understand that he might find it difficult to post a letter
“The police have watched this Lascar,” said Inspector Bradstreet, “and

“Good God! What a week she must have spent!”

“That note only reached her yesterday,” said Holmes.

scrawl, telling her that she had no cause to fear.”
moment when no constable was watching me, together with a hurried
anxious, I slipped off my ring and confided it to the Lascar at a
preference for a dirty face. Knowing that my wife would be terribly
determined to preserve my disguise as long as possible, and hence my
“I do not know that there is anything else for me to explain. I was

murderer.
being identified as Mr. Neville St. Clair, I was arrested as his
minutes after I found, rather, I confess, to my relief, that instead of
at that moment there was a rush of constables up the stair, and a few
disappeared into the Thames. The other clothes would have followed, but
which I carried my takings. I hurled it out of the window, and it
coppers which I had just transferred to it from the leather bag in
bedroom that morning. Then I seized my coat, which was weighted by the
my violence a small cut which I had inflicted upon myself in the
that the clothes might betray me. I threw open the window, reopening by
then it occurred to me that there might be a search in the room, and
wig. Even a wife’s eyes could not pierce so complete a disguise. But
my clothes, pulled on those of a beggar, and put on my pigments and
downstairs, but I knew that she could not ascend. Swiftly I threw off
him to prevent anyone from coming up to me. I heard her voice
to cover my face, and, rushing to my confidant, the Lascar, entreated
her eyes fixed full upon me. I gave a cry of surprise, threw up my arms
horror and astonishment, that my wife was standing in the street, with
above the opium den when I looked out of my window and saw, to my
“Last Monday I had finished for the day and was dressing in my room

little knew what.
occupation. My dear wife knew that I had business in the City. She
and eventually married, without anyone having a suspicion as to my real
“As I grew richer I grew more ambitious, took a house in the country,

£ 2.
poured in upon me, and it was a very bad day in which I failed to take
character in the City. All day a stream of pennies, varied by silver,
repartee, which improved by practice and made me quite a recognised
advantages in my power of making up, and also in a facility of
a year—which is less than my average takings—but I had exceptional
I do not mean that any beggar in the streets of London could earn £ 700
“Well, very soon I found that I was saving considerable sums of money.

that my secret was safe in his possession.
fellow, a Lascar, was well paid by me for his rooms, so that I knew
evenings transform myself into a well-dressed man about town. This
Lane, where I could every morning emerge as a squalid beggar and in the
He was the keeper of a low den in which I used to lodge in Swandam
face and filling my pockets with coppers. Only one man knew my secret.
in the corner which I had first chosen, inspiring pity by my ghastly
the dollars won at last, and I threw up reporting and sat day after day
sitting still. It was a long fight between my pride and the money, but
smearing my face with a little paint, laying my cap on the ground, and
at £ 2 a week when I knew that I could earn as much in a day by
“Well, you can imagine how hard it was to settle down to arduous work

debt.
City under my disguise. In ten days I had the money and had paid the
for a holiday from my employers, and spent the time in begging in the
idea came to me. I begged a fortnight’s grace from the creditor, asked
for £ 25. I was at my wit’s end where to get the money, but a sudden
time later, I backed a bill for a friend and had a writ served upon me
“I wrote my articles and thought little more of the matter until, some

4_d_.
evening I found to my surprise that I had received no less than 26_s_.
For seven hours I plied my trade, and when I returned home in the
part of the city, ostensibly as a match-seller but really as a beggar.
of hair, and an appropriate dress, I took my station in the business
the aid of a small slip of flesh-coloured plaster. Then with a red head
possible I made a good scar and fixed one side of my lip in a twist by
attainments. I painted my face, and to make myself as pitiable as
famous in the green-room for my skill. I took advantage now of my
had, of course, learned all the secrets of making up, and had been
could get the facts upon which to base my articles. When an actor I
adventures started. It was only by trying begging as an amateur that I
volunteered to supply them. There was the point from which all my
have a series of articles upon begging in the metropolis, and I
reporter on an evening paper in London. One day my editor wished to
I travelled in my youth, took to the stage, and finally became a
schoolmaster in Chesterfield, where I received an excellent education.
“You are the first who have ever heard my story. My father was a

secret as a family blot to my children.
imprisonment, ay, even execution, rather than have left my miserable
“God bless you!” cried the prisoner passionately. “I would have endured

proper authorities. The case would then never go into court at all.”
make notes upon anything which you might tell us and submit it to the
find their way into the papers. Inspector Bradstreet would, I am sure,
you, I do not know that there is any reason that the details should
convince the police authorities that there is no possible case against
“of course you can hardly avoid publicity. On the other hand, if you
“If you leave it to a court of law to clear the matter up,” said he,

on the shoulder.
Sherlock Holmes sat down beside him on the couch and patted him kindly

exposure! What can I do?”
help me, I would not have them ashamed of their father. My God! What an
“It was not the wife; it was the children,” groaned the prisoner. “God

“You would have done better to have trusted your wife.”
“No crime, but a very great error has been committed,” said Holmes.

been committed, and that, therefore, I am illegally detained.”
“If I am Mr. Neville St. Clair, then it is obvious that no crime has

force, but this really takes the cake.”
inspector with a grin. “Well, I have been twenty-seven years in the
with that unless they make a case of attempted suicide of it,” said the
“With making away with Mr. Neville St.— Oh, come, you can’t be charged

to his destiny. “Be it so,” said he. “And pray what am I charged with?”
The prisoner turned with the reckless air of a man who abandons himself

I know him from the photograph.”
“Great heavens!” cried the inspector, “it is, indeed, the missing man.

scream and threw himself down with his face to the pillow.
bewilderment. Then suddenly realising the exposure, he broke into a
smooth-skinned, rubbing his eyes and staring about him with sleepy
bed, was a pale, sad-faced, refined-looking man, black-haired and
twitch brought away the tangled red hair, and there, sitting up in his
the twisted lip which had given the repulsive sneer to the face! A
tint! Gone, too, was the horrid scar which had seamed it across, and
under the sponge like the bark from a tree. Gone was the coarse brown
Never in my life have I seen such a sight. The man’s face peeled off

in the county of Kent.”
“Let me introduce you,” he shouted, “to Mr. Neville St. Clair, of Lee,

twice vigorously across and down the prisoner’s face.
stooped to the water-jug, moistened his sponge, and then rubbed it
turned, and then settled down once more into a deep slumber. Holmes
lock, and we all very quietly entered the cell. The sleeper half
credit to the Bow Street cells, does he?” He slipped his key into the
“Well, I don’t know why not,” said the inspector. “He doesn’t look a

quietly, we will soon make him cut a much more respectable figure.”
“Now, if you will have the great goodness to open that door very

“He! he! You are a funny one,” chuckled the inspector.

large bath-sponge.
the Gladstone bag as he spoke, and took out, to my astonishment, a very
might, and I took the liberty of bringing the tools with me.” He opened
“He certainly needs a wash,” remarked Holmes. “I had an idea that he

“He’s a beauty, isn’t he?” said the inspector.

hair grew low over his eyes and forehead.
teeth were exposed in a perpetual snarl. A shock of very bright red
contraction had turned up one side of the upper lip, so that three
wheal from an old scar ran right across it from eye to chin, and by its
covered his face could not conceal its repulsive ugliness. A broad
was, as the inspector had said, extremely dirty, but the grime which
coloured shirt protruding through the rent in his tattered coat. He
a middle-sized man, coarsely clad as became his calling, with a
towards us, in a very deep sleep, breathing slowly and heavily. He was
We both put our eyes to the grating. The prisoner lay with his face

“He is asleep,” said he. “You can see him very well.”

through.
quietly shot back a panel in the upper part of the door and glanced
“The third on the right is his,” said the inspector. “Here it is!” He

whitewashed corridor with a line of doors on each side.
opened a barred door, passed down a winding stair, and brought us to a
“Very good. Come this way, if you please.” He led us down a passage,

“No, I think that I’ll take it.”

bag.”
“Would you? That is easily done. Come this way. You can leave your

“I should like to see him very much.”

agree with me that he needed it.”
will have a regular prison bath; and I think, if you saw him, you would
as black as a tinker’s. Well, when once his case has been settled, he
“Yes, it is all we can do to make him wash his hands, and his face is

“Dirty?”

“Oh, he gives no trouble. But he is a dirty scoundrel.”

“Is he quiet?”

“In the cells.”

“So I heard. You have him here?”

“Yes. He was brought up and remanded for further inquiries.”

being concerned in the disappearance of Mr. Neville St. Clair, of Lee.”
“I called about that beggarman, Boone—the one who was charged with

“What can I do for you, Mr. Holmes?”

desk.
and a telephone projecting from the wall. The inspector sat down at his
It was a small, office-like room, with a huge ledger upon the table,

“Certainly, Mr. Holmes. Step into my room here.”

have a quiet word with you, Bradstreet.”
stone-flagged passage, in a peaked cap and frogged jacket. “I wish to
“Ah, Bradstreet, how are you?” A tall, stout official had come down the

“Inspector Bradstreet, sir.”

“Who is on duty?” asked Holmes.

horse’s head while the other led us in.
and the two constables at the door saluted him. One of them held the
ourselves in Bow Street. Sherlock Holmes was well known to the force,
dashing up Wellington Street wheeled sharply to the right and found
Passing down the Waterloo Bridge Road we crossed over the river, and
their windows as we drove through the streets of the Surrey side.
In town the earliest risers were just beginning to look sleepily from

but it is better to learn wisdom late than never to learn it at all.”
horse on into a gallop. “I confess that I have been as blind as a mole,
“It has been in some points a singular case,” said Holmes, flicking the

either side were as silent and lifeless as some city in a dream.
bearing in vegetables to the metropolis, but the lines of villas on
we dashed down the London Road. A few country carts were stirring,
half-clad stable-boy waiting at the head. We both sprang in, and away
bright morning sunshine. In the road stood our horse and trap, with the
We made our way downstairs as quietly as possible, and out into the

my boy, and we shall see whether it will not fit the lock.”
I have taken it out, and I have got it in this Gladstone bag. Come on,
continued, seeing my look of incredulity. “I have just been there, and
“In the bathroom,” he answered. “Oh, yes, I am not joking,” he

“And where is it?” I asked, smiling.

here to Charing Cross. But I think I have the key of the affair now.”
one of the most absolute fools in Europe. I deserve to be kicked from
boots. “I think, Watson, that you are now standing in the presence of
“I want to test a little theory of mine,” said he, pulling on his

horse.
when Holmes returned with the news that the boy was putting in the
stirring. It was twenty-five minutes past four. I had hardly finished
As I dressed I glanced at my watch. It was no wonder that no one was

sombre thinker of the previous night.
he spoke, his eyes twinkled, and he seemed a different man to the
sleeps, and we shall soon have the trap out.” He chuckled to himself as
“Then dress. No one is stirring yet, but I know where the stable-boy

“Certainly.”

“Game for a morning drive?”

“Yes.”

“Awake, Watson?” he asked.

of shag which I had seen upon the previous night.
room was full of a dense tobacco haze, but nothing remained of the heap
pipe was still between his lips, the smoke still curled upward, and the
to wake up, and I found the summer sun shining into the apartment. The
dropped off to sleep, and so he sat when a sudden ejaculation caused me
the light shining upon his strong-set aquiline features. So he sat as I
ceiling, the blue smoke curling up from him, silent, motionless, with
between his lips, his eyes fixed vacantly upon the corner of the
the dim light of the lamp I saw him sitting there, an old briar pipe
ounce of shag tobacco and a box of matches laid out in front of him. In
Eastern divan, upon which he perched himself cross-legged, with an
from the sofa and armchairs. With these he constructed a sort of
wandered about the room collecting pillows from his bed and cushions
his coat and waistcoat, put on a large blue dressing-gown, and then
to me that he was now preparing for an all-night sitting. He took off
convinced himself that his data were insufficient. It was soon evident
at it from every point of view until he had either fathomed it or
a week, without rest, turning it over, rearranging his facts, looking
had an unsolved problem upon his mind, would go for days, and even for
my night of adventure. Sherlock Holmes was a man, however, who, when he
disposal, and I was quickly between the sheets, for I was weary after
A large and comfortable double-bedded room had been placed at our

then retire, for we may have a very busy day to-morrow.”
I wished to be absolutely clear. We shall now have a little supper and
“Thank you, Mrs. St. Clair. Those are the principal points about which

“Never.”

“Had he ever showed any signs of having taken opium?”

“Never.”

“Had he ever spoken of Swandam Lane?”

“But without his collar or tie. I distinctly saw his bare throat.”

clothes on?”
“Quite so. Your husband, as far as you could see, had his ordinary

Lascar was at the foot of the stairs.”
“No, but this horrible man confessed to having been there, and the

“He might have leaped back. You did not see anyone else in the room?”

“He disappeared so suddenly.”

“And you thought he was pulled back?”

“It is possible.”

unexpected sight of you might cause him to throw up his hands?”
“But it might have been a cry of surprise. Astonishment at the

“Yes. He waved his hands.”

“A call for help, you thought?”

“Yes.”

“He only, as I understand, gave an inarticulate cry?”

“He might.”

“Then he might have called to you?”

“Yes.”

“Was the window open?”

“Very much so.”

“And you were surprised to see him in Swandam Lane?”

“No.”

“And on Monday he made no remarks before leaving you?”

“I cannot imagine. It is unthinkable.”

letters, why should he remain away from you?”
corroborate your view. But if your husband is alive and able to write
this letter you certainly have a very strong piece of evidence to
more valuable than the conclusion of an analytical reasoner. And in
“I have seen too much not to know that the impression of a woman may be

death?”
that I would respond to such a trifle and yet be ignorant of his
with the utmost certainty that something had happened. Do you think
in the bedroom, and yet I in the dining-room rushed upstairs instantly
evil came upon him. On the very day that I saw him last he cut himself
with him. There is so keen a sympathy between us that I should know if
“Oh, you must not discourage me, Mr. Holmes. I know that all is well

“If so, much may have happened between.”

“That is possible.”

posted to-day.”
“Very well. It may, however, have been written on Monday and only

“No, no; it is, it is his very own writing!”

ring, after all, proves nothing. It may have been taken from him.”
“Unless this is a clever forgery to put us on the wrong scent. The

“But he must be alive, Mr. Holmes.”

over.”
clouds lighten, though I should not venture to say that the danger is
“And they were posted to-day at Gravesend. Well, Mrs. St. Clair, the

“None. Neville wrote those words.”

no doubt that it is your husband’s hand, madam?”
much in error, by a person who had been chewing tobacco. And you have
with a dirty thumb. Ha! And the flap has been gummed, if I am not very
octavo size, no water-mark. Hum! Posted to-day in Gravesend by a man
patience.—NEVILLE.’ Written in pencil upon the fly-leaf of a book,
error which it may take some little time to rectify. Wait in
“‘Dearest do not be frightened. All will come well. There is a huge

and yet I know it well.”
“His hand when he wrote hurriedly. It is very unlike his usual writing,

“One?”

“One of his hands.”

“And you are sure that this is your husband’s hand?”

“Yes, there was a ring. His signet-ring.”

Ha! there has been an enclosure here!”
there is nothing so important as trifles. Let us now see the letter.
mean that he was not familiar with it. It is, of course, a trifle, but
there has then been a pause before he wrote the address, which can only
would be of a deep black shade. This man has written the name, and
been used. If it had been written straight off, and then blotted, none
The rest is of the greyish colour, which shows that blotting-paper has
“The name, you see, is in perfectly black ink, which has dried itself.

“How can you tell that?”

inquire as to the address.”
“I perceive also that whoever addressed the envelope had to go and

“No, but the enclosure is.”

writing, madam.”
“Coarse writing,” murmured Holmes. “Surely this is not your husband’s

considerably after midnight.
date of that very day, or rather of the day before, for it was
coarse one and was stamped with the Gravesend postmark and with the
chair and was gazing at it over his shoulder. The envelope was a very
table he drew over the lamp and examined it intently. I had left my
He snatched it from her in his eagerness, and smoothing it out upon the

“Certainly.”

“May I see it?”

the air.
“Yes, to-day.” She stood smiling, holding up a little slip of paper in

“What!” he roared.

Sherlock Holmes sprang out of his chair as if he had been galvanised.

that I have received a letter from him to-day.”
“Then perhaps, Mr. Holmes, you will be good enough to explain how it is

“On Monday.”

“And on what day did he meet his death?”

“I don’t say that. Perhaps.”

“Murdered?”

“I do.”

“You think that he is dead?”

“Frankly, then, madam, I do not.”

him as he leaned back in a basket-chair.
now!” she repeated, standing upon the rug and looking keenly down at
Sherlock Holmes seemed to be embarrassed by the question. “Frankly,

“In your heart of hearts, do you think that Neville is alive?”

“Upon what point?”

fainting. I simply wish to hear your real, real opinion.”
“Do not trouble about my feelings. I am not hysterical, nor given to

“Certainly, madam.”

which I beg that you will give a plain answer.”
“I should very much like to ask you one or two plain questions, to
dining-room, upon the table of which a cold supper had been laid out,
“Now, Mr. Sherlock Holmes,” said the lady as we entered a well-lit

happy.”
assistance, either to you or to my friend here, I shall be indeed
can very well see that no apology is needed. If I can be of any
“My dear madam,” said I, “I am an old campaigner, and if I were not I

upon us.”
arrangements, when you consider the blow which has come so suddenly
will, I am sure, forgive anything that may be wanting in our
“I am delighted to see you,” said she, pressing my hand warmly. “You

bring him out and associate him with this investigation.”
several of my cases, and a lucky chance has made it possible for me to
“This is my friend, Dr. Watson. He has been of most vital use to me in

long day.”
“Thank God for that. But come in. You must be weary, for you have had a

“No.”

“No bad?”

“None.”

“No good news?”

companion shook his head and shrugged his shoulders.
she gave a cry of hope which sank into a groan as she saw that my
“Well?” she cried, “well?” And then, seeing that there were two of us,

standing question.
bent, her head and face protruded, with eager eyes and parted lips, a
upon the door, one half-raised in her eagerness, her body slightly
stood with her figure outlined against the flood of light, one hand
soie, with a touch of fluffy pink chiffon at her neck and wrists. She
woman stood in the opening, clad in some sort of light mousseline de
the house. As we approached, the door flew open, and a little blonde
down, I followed Holmes up the small, winding gravel-drive which led to
grounds. A stable-boy had run out to the horse’s head, and springing
We had pulled up in front of a large villa which stood within its own

husband. Here we are. Whoa, there, whoa!”
colleague. I hate to meet her, Watson, when I have no news of her
assured that she will have nothing but a welcome for my friend and
Clair has most kindly put two rooms at my disposal, and you may rest
“Because there are many inquiries which must be made out here. Mrs. St.

“But why are you not conducting the case from Baker Street?” I asked.

of our horse’s feet.”
whose anxious ears have already, I have little doubt, caught the clink
among the trees? That is The Cedars, and beside that lamp sits a woman
passing over an angle of Surrey, and ending in Kent. See that light
on three English counties in our short drive, starting in Middlesex,
“We are on the outskirts of Lee,” said my companion. “We have touched

still glimmered in the windows.
however, we drove through two scattered villages, where a few lights
along with a country hedge upon either side of us. Just as he finished,
until the last straggling houses had been left behind, and we rattled
events, we had been whirling through the outskirts of the great town
While Sherlock Holmes had been detailing this singular series of

glance so simple and yet which presented such difficulties.”
cannot recall any case within my experience which looked at the first
disappearance—are all as far from a solution as ever. I confess that I
there, where is he now, and what Hugh Boone had to do with his
Neville St. Clair was doing in the opium den, what happened to him when
stands at present, and the questions which have to be solved—what
appeared to have been a very quiet and innocent one. There the matter
him. He had for years been known as a professional beggar, but his life
it could not be shown that there had ever before been anything against
Boone, as I have told you, was arrested and taken to the station, but
“Well, we will take it as a working hypothesis for want of a better.

“It certainly sounds feasible.”

only just had time to close the window when the police appeared.”
with the other garments had not he heard the rush of steps below, and
of the coat’s sinking. He throws it out, and would have done the same
the coins upon which he can lay his hands into the pockets to make sure
where he has accumulated the fruits of his beggary, and he stuffs all
There is not an instant to be lost. He rushes to some secret hoard,
from his Lascar confederate that the police are hurrying up the street.
the wife tried to force her way up, and perhaps he has already heard
sink. He has little time, for he has heard the scuffle downstairs when
throwing it out, when it would occur to him that it would swim and not
tell-tale garments. He would seize the coat, then, and be in the act of
It would of course instantly strike him that he must get rid of the
is no human eye which could have seen the deed. What would he do then?
this man Boone had thrust Neville St. Clair through the window, there
“No, sir, but the facts might be met speciously enough. Suppose that

Would the body be dressed in a coat alone?”
“But I understand that all the other clothes were found in the room.

the stripped body had been sucked away into the river.”
house. It seemed likely enough that the weighted coat had remained when
different matter. There is a fierce eddy between the wharf and the
that it had not been swept away by the tide. But a human body is a
and half-pennies—421 pennies and 270 half-pennies. It was no wonder
“No, I don’t think you would guess. Every pocket stuffed with pennies

“I cannot imagine.”

they found in the pockets?”
Clair, which lay uncovered as the tide receded. And what do you think
feared to find. It was Neville St. Clair’s coat, and not Neville St.
“And it did, though they hardly found upon the mud-bank what they had

clue.
the premises in the hope that the ebbing tide might afford some fresh
protesting, to the police-station, while the inspector remained upon
must have been either mad or dreaming. He was removed, loudly
she had actually seen her husband at the window, he declared that she
mystery to him as to the police. As to Mrs. St. Clair’s assertion that
and swore that the presence of the clothes in his room was as much a
source. He denied strenuously having ever seen Mr. Neville St. Clair
stains which had been observed there came doubtless from the same
adding that he had been to the window not long before, and that the
cut near the nail, and explained that the bleeding came from there,
right shirt-sleeve, but he pointed to his ring-finger, which had been
incriminate him. There were, it is true, some blood-stains upon his
was seized and searched, without anything being found which could
with his friend the Lascar, but this fault was soon remedied, and he
he was allowed some few minutes during which he might have communicated
matter. One mistake had been made in not arresting Boone instantly, as
premises, but without finding anything which threw any light upon the
had charge of the case, made a very careful examination of the
be of no help to them in their investigations. Inspector Barton, who
and she was escorted home in a cab by the police, as her presence could
“Mrs. St. Clair had fainted at the sight of the blood upon the window,

“Pray continue your narrative.”

often compensated for by exceptional strength in the others.”
medical experience would tell you, Watson, that weakness in one limb is
respects he appears to be a powerful and well-nurtured man. Surely your
“He is a cripple in the sense that he walks with a limp; but in other

a man in the prime of life?”
“But a cripple!” said I. “What could he have done single-handed against

in quest.”
den, and to have been the last man to see the gentleman of whom we are
This is the man whom we now learn to have been the lodger at the opium
to any piece of chaff which may be thrown at him by the passers-by.
mendicants and so, too, does his wit, for he is ever ready with a reply
colour of his hair, all mark him out from amid the common crowd of
of very penetrating dark eyes, which present a singular contrast to the
turned up the outer edge of his upper lip, a bulldog chin, and a pair
pale face disfigured by a horrible scar, which, by its contraction, has
no one can pass him without observing him. A shock of orange hair, a
reaped in a short time. His appearance, you see, is so remarkable that
acquaintance, and I have been surprised at the harvest which he has
fellow more than once before ever I thought of making his professional
leather cap which lies upon the pavement beside him. I have watched the
piteous spectacle a small rain of charity descends into the greasy
cross-legged with his tiny stock of matches on his lap, and as he is a
the wall. Here it is that this creature takes his daily seat,
left-hand side, there is, as you may have remarked, a small angle in
vestas. Some little distance down Threadneedle Street, upon the
avoid the police regulations he pretends to a small trade in wax
goes much to the City. He is a professional beggar, though in order to
Boone, and his hideous face is one which is familiar to every man who
human being whose eyes rested upon Neville St. Clair. His name is Hugh
upon the second floor of the opium den, and who was certainly the last
“So much for the Lascar manager. Now for the sinister cripple who lives

gentleman’s clothes.
that he could not account in any way for the presence of the missing
he had no knowledge as to the doings of Hugh Boone, his lodger, and
crime. His defence was one of absolute ignorance, and he protested that
at the window, he could hardly have been more than an accessory to the
foot of the stair within a very few seconds of her husband’s appearance
but as, by Mrs. St. Clair’s story, he was known to have been at the
the matter. The Lascar was known to be a man of the vilest antecedents,
“And now as to the villains who seemed to be immediately implicated in

of the tragedy.
himself by swimming, for the tide was at its very highest at the moment
bloodstains upon the sill gave little promise that he could save
have gone for no other exit could be discovered, and the ominous
traces of Mr. Neville St. Clair. Out of the window he must apparently
signs of violence upon any of these garments, and there were no other
boots, his socks, his hat, and his watch—all were there. There were no
clothes of Mr. Neville St. Clair, with the exception of his coat. His
bedroom. Thrust away behind a curtain in the front room were all the
several scattered drops were visible upon the wooden floor of the
examination traces of blood were to be seen upon the windowsill, and
water. The bedroom window was a broad one and opened from below. On
tide but is covered at high tide with at least four and a half feet of
the wharf and the bedroom window is a narrow strip, which is dry at low
bedroom, which looked out upon the back of one of the wharves. Between
front room was plainly furnished as a sitting-room and led into a small
carefully examined, and results all pointed to an abominable crime. The
made the inspector realise that the matter was serious. The rooms were
“This discovery, and the evident confusion which the cripple showed,

which he had promised to bring home.
from it. Out there fell a cascade of children’s bricks. It was the toy
sprang at a small deal box which lay upon the table and tore the lid
believe that Mrs. St. Clair had been deluded when, with a cry, she
their denial that the inspector was staggered, and had almost come to
else had been in the front room during the afternoon. So determined was
made his home there. Both he and the Lascar stoutly swore that no one
to be found save a crippled wretch of hideous aspect, who, it seems,
sign of him there. In fact, in the whole of that floor there was no one
way to the room in which Mr. St. Clair had last been seen. There was no
in spite of the continued resistance of the proprietor, they made their
way to their beat. The inspector and two men accompanied her back, and
Fresno Street a number of constables with an inspector, all on their
and fears, she rushed down the lane and, by rare good-fortune, met in
pushed her out into the street. Filled with the most maddening doubts
who thrust her back and, aided by a Dane, who acts as assistant there,
stairs, however, she met this Lascar scoundrel of whom I have spoken,
ascend the stairs which led to the first floor. At the foot of the
found me to-night—and running through the front room she attempted to
steps—for the house was none other than the opium den in which you
“Convinced that something was amiss with him, she rushed down the

had on neither collar nor necktie.
although he wore some dark coat, such as he had started to town in, he
behind. One singular point which struck her quick feminine eye was that
her that he had been plucked back by some irresistible force from
her, and then vanished from the window so suddenly that it seemed to
describes as being terribly agitated. He waved his hands frantically to
window. The window was open, and she distinctly saw his face, which she
at her and, as it seemed to her, beckoning to her from a second-floor
ejaculation or cry, and was struck cold to see her husband looking down
walking in this way down Swandam Lane, she suddenly heard an
not like the neighbourhood in which she found herself. While she was
walked slowly, glancing about in the hope of seeing a cab, as she did
“If you remember, Monday was an exceedingly hot day, and Mrs. St. Clair

“It is very clear.”

me so far?”
through Swandam Lane on her way back to the station. Have you followed
office, got her packet, and found herself at exactly 4:35 walking
started for the City, did some shopping, proceeded to the company’s
Lane, where you found me to-night. Mrs. St. Clair had her lunch,
of the company is in Fresno Street, which branches out of Upper Swandam
Now, if you are well up in your London, you will know that the office
was waiting for her at the offices of the Aberdeen Shipping Company.
that a small parcel of considerable value which she had been expecting
upon this same Monday, very shortly after his departure, to the effect
box of bricks. Now, by the merest chance, his wife received a telegram
commissions to perform, and that he would bring his little boy home a
usual, remarking before he started that he had two important
“Last Monday Mr. Neville St. Clair went into town rather earlier than

weighing upon his mind.
There is no reason, therefore, to think that money troubles have been
he has £ 220 standing to his credit in the Capital and Counties Bank.
as far as we have been able to ascertain, amount to £ 88 10_s_., while
all who know him. I may add that his whole debts at the present moment,
good husband, a very affectionate father, and a man who is popular with
Clair is now thirty-seven years of age, is a man of temperate habits, a
morning, returning by the 5:14 from Cannon Street every night. Mr. St.
interested in several companies and went into town as a rule in the
by whom he now has two children. He had no occupation, but was
neighbourhood, and in 1887 he married the daughter of a local brewer,
lived generally in good style. By degrees he made friends in the
money. He took a large villa, laid out the grounds very nicely, and
gentleman, Neville St. Clair by name, who appeared to have plenty of
“Some years ago—to be definite, in May, 1884—there came to Lee a

“Proceed, then.”

Watson, and maybe you can see a spark where all is dark to me.”
it into my hand. Now, I’ll state the case clearly and concisely to you,
go upon. There’s plenty of thread, no doubt, but I can’t get the end of
to Lee. It seems absurdly simple, and yet, somehow I can get nothing to
“I shall just have time to tell you the facts of the case before we get

“You forget that I know nothing about it.”

woman to-night when she meets me at the door.”
over-pleasant. I was wondering what I should say to this dear little
me to have someone to talk to, for my own thoughts are not
quite invaluable as a companion. ’Pon my word, it is a great thing for
“You have a grand gift of silence, Watson,” said he. “It makes you

has satisfied himself that he is acting for the best.
shrugged his shoulders, and lit up his pipe with the air of a man who
the fringe of the belt of suburban villas, when he shook himself,
his thoughts. We had driven several miles, and were beginning to get to
his powers so sorely, and yet afraid to break in upon the current of
him, curious to learn what this new quest might be which seemed to tax
breast, and the air of a man who is lost in thought, while I sat beside
of the clouds. Holmes drove in silence, with his head sunk upon his
sky, and a star or two twinkled dimly here and there through the rifts
belated party of revellers. A dull wrack was drifting slowly across the
regular footfall of the policeman, or the songs and shouts of some
wilderness of bricks and mortar, its silence broken only by the heavy,
the murky river flowing sluggishly beneath us. Beyond lay another dull
gradually, until we were flying across a broad balustraded bridge, with
endless succession of sombre and deserted streets, which widened
He flicked the horse with his whip, and we dashed away through the

for me to-morrow, about eleven. Give her her head. So long, then!”
All right, John; we shall not need you. Here’s half a crown. Look out
“Of course you are. You’ll know all about it presently. Jump up here.

“But I am all in the dark.”

“Near Lee, in Kent. We have a seven-mile drive before us.”

“Where is it, then?”

the inquiry.”
“Yes; that is Mr. St. Clair’s house. I am staying there while I conduct

“The Cedars?”

My room at The Cedars is a double-bedded one.”
“Oh, a trusty comrade is always of use; and a chronicler still more so.

“If I can be of use.”

lanterns. “You’ll come with me, won’t you?”
gloom, throwing out two golden tunnels of yellow light from its side
“Now, Watson,” said Holmes, as a tall dog-cart dashed up through the

shortly by the rattle of wheels and the clink of horses’ hoofs.
which was answered by a similar whistle from the distance, followed
put his two forefingers between his teeth and whistled shrilly—a signal
has entered it never to leave it more. But our trap should be here.” He
murder-trap on the whole riverside, and I fear that Neville St. Clair
poor devil who has been done to death in that den. It is the vilest
“Ay, bodies, Watson. We should be rich men if we had £ 1000 for every

“What! You do not mean bodies?”

strange tales of what has passed through it upon the moonless nights.”
building, near the corner of Paul’s Wharf, which could tell some
have vengeance upon me. There is a trap-door at the back of that
for my own purposes, and the rascally Lascar who runs it has sworn to
not have been worth an hour’s purchase; for I have used it before now
I have done before now. Had I been recognised in that den my life would
have hoped to find a clue in the incoherent ramblings of these sots, as
Briefly, Watson, I am in the midst of a very remarkable inquiry, and I
“Yes; one of my natural enemies, or, shall I say, my natural prey.

“An enemy?”

“And I to find an enemy.”

“I came to find a friend.”

“But not more so than I to find you.”

“I was certainly surprised to find you there.”

weaknesses on which you have favoured me with your medical views.”
opium-smoking to cocaine injections, and all the other little
“I suppose, Watson,” said he, “that you imagine that I have added

of laughter.
quickly round, he straightened himself out and burst into a hearty fit
shuffled along with a bent back and an uncertain foot. Then, glancing
was walking down the street with Sherlock Holmes. For two streets he
very short time a decrepit figure had emerged from the opium den, and I
led him out to the cab, and seen him driven through the darkness. In a
existence. In a few minutes I had written my note, paid Whitney’s bill,
one of those singular adventures which were the normal condition of his
could not wish anything better than to be associated with my friend in
the cab my mission was practically accomplished; and for the rest, I
air of mastery. I felt, however, that when Whitney was once confined in
were always so exceedingly definite, and put forward with such a quiet
It was difficult to refuse any of Sherlock Holmes’ requests, for they

you in five minutes.”
thrown in your lot with me. If you will wait outside, I shall be with
also to send a note by the cabman to your wife to say that you have
appears to be too limp to get into any mischief. I should recommend you
“Then pray send him home in it. You may safely trust him, for he

“I have a cab outside.”

should be exceedingly glad to have a little talk with you.”
have the great kindness to get rid of that sottish friend of yours I
“As low as you can,” he answered; “I have excellent ears. If you would

“Holmes!” I whispered, “what on earth are you doing in this den?”

senility.
to the company once more, subsided into a doddering, loose-lipped
to me to approach him, and instantly, as he turned his face half round
surprise, was none other than Sherlock Holmes. He made a slight motion
regained their fire, and there, sitting by the fire and grinning at my
His form had filled out, his wrinkles were gone, the dull eyes had
astonishment. He had turned his back so that none could see him but I.
my self-control to prevent me from breaking out into a cry of
from his fingers. I took two steps forward and looked back. It took all
from between his knees, as though it had dropped in sheer lassitude
very thin, very wrinkled, bent with age, an opium pipe dangling down
from the old man at my side, and yet he sat now as absorbed as ever,
quite distinctly upon my ear. I glanced down. They could only have come
whispered, “Walk past me, and then look back at me.” The words fell
the brazier I felt a sudden pluck at my skirt, and a low voice
and looking about for the manager. As I passed the tall man who sat by
holding my breath to keep out the vile, stupefying fumes of the drug,
I walked down the narrow passage between the double row of sleepers,

Watson. I am all off colour. I can do nothing for myself.”
“Then I shall go in it. But I must owe something. Find what I owe,

“Yes, I have one waiting.”

you a cab?”
you. I wouldn’t frighten Kate—poor little Kate. Give me your hand! Have
hours, three pipes, four pipes—I forget how many. But I’ll go home with
“So I am. But you’ve got mixed, Watson, for I have only been here a few

days for you. You should be ashamed of yourself!”
“I tell you that it is Friday, man. Your wife has been waiting this two

to sob in a high treble key.
want to frighten a chap for?” He sank his face onto his arms and began
“Good heavens! I thought it was Wednesday. It is Wednesday. What d’you

“Of Friday, June 19th.”

“Of what day?”

“Nearly eleven.”

with every nerve in a twitter. “I say, Watson, what o’clock is it?”
“My God! It’s Watson,” said he. He was in a pitiable state of reaction,

out at me.
through the gloom, I saw Whitney, pale, haggard, and unkempt, staring
There was a movement and an exclamation from my right, and peering

mine here, Mr. Isa Whitney, and I wish to speak with him.”
“Thank you. I have not come to stay,” said I. “There is a friend of

me and a supply of the drug, beckoning me to an empty berth.
As I entered, a sallow Malay attendant had hurried up with a pipe for

knees, staring into the fire.
man, with his jaw resting upon his two fists, and his elbows upon his
beside which on a three-legged wooden stool there sat a tall, thin old
neighbour. At the farther end was a small brazier of burning charcoal,
out his own thoughts and paying little heed to the words of his
in gushes, and then suddenly tailing off into silence, each mumbling
together in a strange, low, monotonous voice, their conversation coming
most lay silent, but some muttered to themselves, and others talked
the burning poison waxed or waned in the bowls of the metal pipes. The
there glimmered little red circles of light, now bright, now faint, as
lack-lustre eye turned upon the newcomer. Out of the black shadows
back, and chins pointing upward, with here and there a dark,
strange fantastic poses, bowed shoulders, bent knees, heads thrown
Through the gloom one could dimly catch a glimpse of bodies lying in

forecastle of an emigrant ship.
the brown opium smoke, and terraced with wooden berths, like the
the latch and made my way into a long, low room, thick and heavy with
feet; and by the light of a flickering oil-lamp above the door I found
the steps, worn hollow in the centre by the ceaseless tread of drunken
den of which I was in search. Ordering my cab to wait, I passed down
steps leading down to a black gap like the mouth of a cave, I found the
Between a slop-shop and a gin-shop, approached by a steep flight of
which line the north side of the river to the east of London Bridge.
Upper Swandam Lane is a vile alley lurking behind the high wharves
But there was no great difficulty in the first stage of my adventure.

could show how strange it was to be.
strange errand, as it seemed to me at the time, though the future only
sitting-room behind me, and was speeding eastward in a hansom on a
me. And so in ten minutes I had left my armchair and cheery
within two hours if he were indeed at the address which she had given
alone. I promised her on my word that I would send him home in a cab
such I had influence over him. I could manage it better if I were
why should she come at all? I was Isa Whitney’s medical adviser, and as
Might I not escort her to this place? And then, as a second thought,
There was the case, and of course there was but one way out of it.

and pluck her husband out from among the ruffians who surrounded him?
How could she, a young and timid woman, make her way into such a place
it, at the Bar of Gold, in Upper Swandam Lane. But what was she to do?
or sleeping off the effects. There he was to be found, she was sure of
there, doubtless among the dregs of the docks, breathing in the poison
now the spell had been upon him eight-and-forty hours, and he lay
day, and he had come back, twitching and shattered, in the evening. But
east of the City. Hitherto his orgies had always been confined to one
had, when the fit was on him, made use of an opium den in the farthest
It seems that it was. She had the surest information that of late he

him back to her?
Did she know where her husband was? Was it possible that we could bring
companion. We soothed and comforted her by such words as we could find.
trouble, to me as a doctor, to my wife as an old friend and school
It was not the first time that she had spoken to us of her husband’s

He has not been home for two days. I am so frightened about him!”
“Oh, no, no! I want the doctor’s advice and help, too. It’s about Isa.

rather that I sent James off to bed?”
water, and sit here comfortably and tell us all about it. Or should you
“It was very sweet of you to come. Now, you must have some wine and

lighthouse.
the way. Folk who were in grief came to my wife like birds to a
“I didn’t know what to do, so I came straight to you.” That was always

startled me, Kate! I had not an idea who you were when you came in.”
“Why,” said my wife, pulling up her veil, “it is Kate Whitney. How you

she cried; “I do so want a little help.”
wife’s neck, and sobbed upon her shoulder. “Oh, I’m in such trouble!”
losing her self-control, she ran forward, threw her arms about my
“You will excuse my calling so late,” she began, and then, suddenly

dark-coloured stuff, with a black veil, entered the room.
the linoleum. Our own door flew open, and a lady, clad in some
We heard the door open, a few hurried words, and then quick steps upon

I groaned, for I was newly come back from a weary day.

“A patient!” said she. “You’ll have to go out.”

a little face of disappointment.
in my chair, and my wife laid her needle-work down in her lap and made
hour when a man gives his first yawn and glances at the clock. I sat up
One night—it was in June, ’89—there came a ring to my bell, about the

chair, the wreck and ruin of a noble man.
pasty face, drooping lids, and pin-point pupils, all huddled in a
pity to his friends and relatives. I can see him now, with yellow,
he continued to be a slave to the drug, an object of mingled horror and
the practice is easier to attain than to get rid of, and for many years
to produce the same effects. He found, as so many more have done, that
and sensations, he had drenched his tobacco with laudanum in an attempt
was at college; for having read De Quincey’s description of his dreams
habit grew upon him, as I understand, from some foolish freak when he
Theological College of St. George’s, was much addicted to opium. The
Isa Whitney, brother of the late Elias Whitney, D.D., Principal of the

VI. THE MAN WITH THE TWISTED LIP



Star_.
it, and that is all which we shall ever know of the fate of the _Lone
swinging in the trough of a wave, with the letters “L. S.” carved upon
far out in the Atlantic a shattered stern-post of a boat was seen
Savannah, but none ever reached us. We did at last hear that somewhere
gales that year. We waited long for news of the _Lone Star_ of
was upon their track. Very long and very severe were the equinoctial
would show them that another, as cunning and as resolute as themselves,
murderers of John Openshaw were never to receive the orange pips which
There is ever a flaw, however, in the best laid of human plans, and the

charge of murder.”
of Savannah that these three gentlemen are badly wanted here upon a
have carried this letter, and the cable will have informed the police
the time that their sailing-ship reaches Savannah the mail-boat will
night. I had it from the stevedore who has been loading their cargo. By
Germans. I know, also, that they were all three away from the ship last
only native-born Americans in the ship. The others are Finns and
“Oh, I have my hand upon him. He and the two mates, are as I learn, the

“What will you do, then?”

the Isle of Wight.”
I have no doubt that she is now past the Goodwins and not very far from
learned that she had passed some time ago, and as the wind is easterly
this morning, homeward bound to Savannah. I wired to Gravesend and
Dock and found that she had been taken down the river by the early tide
“The _Lone Star_ had arrived here last week. I went down to the Albert

“Yes?”

London.”
then inquired as to the vessels which lay at present in the port of
Star_ was there in January, ’85, my suspicion became a certainty. I
“I searched the Dundee records, and when I found that the barque _Lone

“What then?”

American origin.”
“I was not and am not sure which; but I knew that the ship must have an

“Texas, I think.”

Union.”
London, the name is that which is given to one of the states of the
attention, since, although it was reported as having cleared from
months. Of these, one, the _Lone Star_, instantly attracted my
thirty-six ships of fair tonnage which were reported there during those
which touched at Pondicherry in January and February in ’83. There were
files of the old papers, following the future career of every vessel
“I have spent the whole day,” said he, “over Lloyd’s registers and

and names.
He took a large sheet of paper from his pocket, all covered with dates

“How did you trace it, then?”

“The leader of the gang. I shall have the others, but he first.”

“And who is this Captain Calhoun?”

fate as Openshaw did before him.”
give him a sleepless night. He will find it as sure a precursor of his
“That will await him when he enters port,” said he, chuckling. “It may

Barque _Lone Star_, Savannah, Georgia.”
O.” Then he sealed it and addressed it to “Captain James Calhoun,
them into an envelope. On the inside of the flap he wrote “S. H. for J.
squeezed out the pips upon the table. Of these he took five and thrust
He took an orange from the cupboard, and tearing it to pieces he

“What do you mean?”

upon them. It is well thought of!”
remain unavenged. Why, Watson, let us put their own devilish trade-mark
“I have them in the hollow of my hand. Young Openshaw shall not long

“You have a clue?”

“Well.”

“And how have you succeeded?”

“Not a bite. I had no time to think of it.”

“Nothing?”

breakfast.”
“Starving. It had escaped my memory. I have had nothing since

“You are hungry,” I remarked.

water.
he devoured it voraciously, washing it down with a long draught of
worn. He walked up to the sideboard, and tearing a piece from the loaf
back yet. It was nearly ten o’clock before he entered, looking pale and
evening before I returned to Baker Street. Sherlock Holmes had not come
All day I was engaged in my professional work, and it was late in the

the flies, but not before.”
“No; I shall be my own police. When I have spun the web they may take

“To the police?”

the long run. I am going out now!”
night, for their purpose. Well, Watson, we shall see who will win in
to the station. The bridge, no doubt, was too crowded, even on such a
have decoyed him down there? The Embankment is not on the direct line
“They must be cunning devils,” he exclaimed at last. “How could they

nervous clasping and unclasping of his long thin hands.
uncontrollable agitation, with a flush upon his sallow cheeks and a
his death—!” He sprang from his chair and paced about the room in
That he should come to me for help, and that I should send him away to
now, and, if God sends me health, I shall set my hand upon this gang.
no doubt, but it hurts my pride. It becomes a personal matter with me
“That hurts my pride, Watson,” he said at last. “It is a petty feeling,

than I had ever seen him.
We sat in silence for some minutes, Holmes more depressed and shaken

the condition of the riverside landing-stages.’”
should have the effect of calling the attention of the authorities to
that the deceased had been the victim of an unfortunate accident, which
The body exhibited no traces of violence, and there can be no doubt
over the edge of one of the small landing-places for river steamboats.
in his haste and the extreme darkness he missed his path and walked
hurrying down to catch the last train from Waterloo Station, and that
residence is near Horsham. It is conjectured that he may have been
an envelope which was found in his pocket, was John Openshaw, and whose
proved to be that of a young gentleman whose name, as it appears from
the aid of the water-police, the body was eventually recovered. It
impossible to effect a rescue. The alarm, however, was given, and, by
so that, in spite of the help of several passers-by, it was quite
splash in the water. The night, however, was extremely dark and stormy,
Division, on duty near Waterloo Bridge, heard a cry for help and a
“‘Between nine and ten last night Police-Constable Cook, of the H

Waterloo Bridge.’ Here is the account:
“My eye caught the name of Openshaw, and the heading ‘Tragedy Near

done?” He spoke calmly, but I could see that he was deeply moved.
“Ah!” said he, laying down his cup, “I feared as much. How was it

“Holmes,” I cried, “you are too late.”

heart.
my eye over it. It rested upon a heading which sent a chill to my
As I waited, I lifted the unopened newspaper from the table and glanced

will bring up your coffee.”
“No, I shall commence with the City. Just ring the bell and the maid

“You will not go there first?”

have to go down to Horsham, after all.”
“It will very much depend upon the results of my first inquiries. I may

“What steps will you take?” I asked.

Openshaw’s.”
foresee, a very busy day before me in looking into this case of young
“You will excuse me for not waiting for you,” said he; “I have, I

Sherlock Holmes was already at breakfast when I came down.
brightness through the dim veil which hangs over the great city.
It had cleared in the morning, and the sun was shining with a subdued

ways of our fellow men.”
for half an hour the miserable weather and the still more miserable
be done to-night, so hand me over my violin and let us try to forget
is to do what I have told him. There is nothing more to be said or to
and I believe that the only chance young Openshaw has in the meantime
Well, I think, Doctor, that we may let some light into this dark place,
and finally that C was visited, with, I fear, a sinister result for C.
there are successive entries that A and B cleared, or left the country,
pips to A, B, and C’—that is, sent the society’s warning to them. Then
“Is such as we might expect. It ran, if I remember right, ‘sent the

“Then the page we have seen—”

recovered.”
and that there may be many who will not sleep easy at night until it is
register and diary may implicate some of the first men in the South,
more implacable spirits upon their track. You can understand that this
and effect. It is no wonder that he and his family have some of the
of Openshaw from America with their papers. It may well have been cause
sudden breaking up of the society was coincident with the disappearance
“You will observe,” said Holmes, laying down the volume, “that the

sporadic outbreaks of the same sort since that date.’
the movement rather suddenly collapsed, although there have been
classes of the community in the South. Eventually, in the year 1869,
of the efforts of the United States government and of the better
the perpetrators. For some years the organisation flourished in spite
it with impunity, or in which any of its outrages were traced home to
there is hardly a case upon record where any man succeeded in braving
the organisation of the society, and so systematic its methods, that
him, and usually in some strange and unforeseen manner. So perfect was
country. If he braved the matter out, death would unfailingly come upon
might either openly abjure his former ways, or might fly from the
melon seeds or orange pips in others. On receiving this the victim
but generally recognised shape—a sprig of oak-leaves in some parts,
usually preceded by a warning sent to the marked man in some fantastic
the country of those who were opposed to its views. Its outrages were
the terrorising of the negro voters and the murdering and driving from
and Florida. Its power was used for political purposes, principally for
the country, notably in Tennessee, Louisiana, the Carolinas, Georgia,
Civil War, and it rapidly formed local branches in different parts of
formed by some ex-Confederate soldiers in the Southern states after the
sound produced by cocking a rifle. This terrible secret society was
“‘Ku Klux Klan. A name derived from the fanciful resemblance to the

said he presently:
Holmes turned over the leaves of the book upon his knee. “Here it is,”

“I never have.”

voice—“have you never heard of the Ku Klux Klan?”
“Have you never—” said Sherlock Holmes, bending forward and sinking his

“But of what society?”

the initials of an individual and becomes the badge of a society.”
holder of them who it may. In this way you see K. K. K. ceases to be
of resource and determination. Their papers they mean to have, be the
jury. There must have been several in it, and they must have been men
have carried out two deaths in such a way as to deceive a coroner’s
clear that there must be more than one of them. A single man could not
the person or persons in the sailing-ship. I think that it is quite
“The papers which Openshaw carried are obviously of vital importance to

“Good God!” I cried. “What can it mean, this relentless persecution?”

cannot count upon delay.”
travel the distance. But this one comes from London, and therefore we
always fallen at the end of the time which it would take the senders to
this new case, and why I urged young Openshaw to caution. The blow has
“More than that. It is probable. And now you see the deadly urgency of

“It is possible.”

sailing vessel which brought the writer.”
difference between the mail-boat which brought the letter and the
weeks elapsed. I think that those seven weeks represented the
arrived almost as soon as their letter. But, as a matter of fact, seven
Dundee. If they had come from Pondicherry in a steamer they would have
You see how quickly the deed followed the sign when it came from
singular warning or token before them when starting upon their mission.
men are is a sailing-ship. It looks as if they always send their
“There is at least a presumption that the vessel in which the man or

“Then I do not see the point.”

“But the letter had also a greater distance to come.”

“A greater distance to travel.”

anything?”
in Dundee it was only some three or four days. Does that suggest
Pondicherry, seven weeks elapsed between the threat and its fulfilment,
ship. And now let us consider another point. In the case of
probability—the strong probability—is that the writer was on board of a
“Excellent. We have already a clue. There can be no doubt that the

“They are all seaports. That the writer was on board of a ship.”

“From East London. What do you deduce from that?”

from London.”
“The first was from Pondicherry, the second from Dundee, and the third

postmarks of those letters?”
which were received by himself and his successors. Did you remark the
feared, we can only deduce that by considering the formidable letters
someone or something which drove him from America. As to what it was he
something, so we may assume as a working hypothesis that it was fear of
in England suggests the idea that he was in fear of someone or
lonely life of an English provincial town. His extreme love of solitude
habits and exchange willingly the charming climate of Florida for the
for leaving America. Men at his time of life do not change all their
strong presumption that Colonel Openshaw had some very strong reason
what may be deduced from it. In the first place, we may start with a
shelf beside you. Thank you. Now let us consider the situation and see
down the letter K of the _American Encyclopædia_ which stands upon the
to-night, we need certainly to muster all our resources. Kindly hand me
Now, for such a case as the one which has been submitted to us
the lumber-room of his library, where he can get it if he wants it.
the furniture that he is likely to use, and the rest he can put away in
then, that a man should keep his little brain-attic stocked with all
Holmes grinned at the last item. “Well,” he said, “I say now, as I said

think, were the main points of my analysis.”
swordsman, lawyer, and self-poisoner by cocaine and tobacco. Those, I
sensational literature and crime records unique, violin-player, boxer,
within fifty miles of town, chemistry eccentric, anatomy unsystematic,
variable, geology profound as regards the mud-stains from any region
astronomy, and politics were marked at zero, I remember. Botany
“Yes,” I answered, laughing. “It was a singular document. Philosophy,

limits in a very precise fashion.”
you on one occasion, in the early days of our friendship, defined my
and this I have endeavoured in my case to do. If I remember rightly,
possess all knowledge which is likely to be useful to him in his work,
accomplishment. It is not so impossible, however, that a man should
days of free education and encyclopædias, is a somewhat rare
will readily see, a possession of all knowledge, which, even in these
which have come to his knowledge; and this in itself implies, as you
necessary that the reasoner should be able to utilise all the facts
their senses. To carry the art, however, to its highest pitch, it is
which have baffled all those who have sought a solution by the aid of
the reason alone can attain to. Problems may be solved in the study
ones, both before and after. We have not yet grasped the results which
a series of incidents should be able to accurately state all the other
single bone, so the observer who has thoroughly understood one link in
could correctly describe a whole animal by the contemplation of a
to it but also all the results which would follow from it. As Cuvier
bearings, deduce from it not only all the chain of events which led up
remarked, “would, when he had once been shown a single fact in all its
his chair, with his finger-tips together. “The ideal reasoner,” he
Sherlock Holmes closed his eyes and placed his elbows upon the arms of

unhappy family?”
“Then what are they? Who is this K. K. K., and why does he pursue this

“There can be no question as to their nature,” he answered.

these perils are?”
“But have you,” I asked, “formed any definite conception as to what

to be walking amid even greater perils than did the Sholtos.”
“Well, yes. Save, perhaps, that. And yet this John Openshaw seems to me

“Save, perhaps, the Sign of Four.”

had none more fantastic than this.”
“I think, Watson,” he remarked at last, “that of all our cases we have

as they chased each other up to the ceiling.
his pipe, and leaning back in his chair he watched the blue smoke-rings
forward and his eyes bent upon the red glow of the fire. Then he lit
Sherlock Holmes sat for some time in silence, with his head sunk

have been reabsorbed by them once more.
elements—blown in upon us like a sheet of sea-weed in a gale—and now to
strange, wild story seemed to have come to us from amid the mad
screamed and the rain splashed and pattered against the windows. This
He shook hands with us and took his leave. Outside the wind still
the box and the papers. I shall take your advice in every particular.”
“Then I shall call upon you in a day, or in two days, with news as to

“No, your secret lies in London. It is there that I shall seek it.”

“I shall see you at Horsham, then?”

“That is well. To-morrow I shall set to work upon your case.”

“I am armed.”

may be in safety. And yet you cannot guard yourself too closely.”
“It is not yet nine. The streets will be crowded, so I trust that you

“By train from Waterloo.”

threatened by a very real and imminent danger. How do you go back?”
meanwhile, for I do not think that there can be a doubt that you are
“Do not lose an instant. And, above all, take care of yourself in the

advise.”
“You have given me fresh life and hope. I shall certainly do as you
“I thank you,” said the young man, rising and pulling on his overcoat.

up the mystery and to punish the guilty parties.”
remove the pressing danger which threatens you. The second is to clear
weave, while theirs is already woven. The first consideration is to
that we may gain that by means of the law; but we have our web to
“Do not think of revenge, or anything of the sort, at present. I think

“Entirely.”

out upon the sundial, as directed. Do you understand?”
conviction with them. Having done this, you must at once put the box
which remains. You must assert that in such words as will carry
other papers were burned by your uncle, and that this is the only one
you have described. You must also put in a note to say that all the
this piece of paper which you have shown us into the brass box which
“There is but one thing to do. It must be done at once. You must put

“What shall I do?”

home instantly and act.”
cannot spare time even to discuss what you have told me. You must get
visitor. “And now you must on no account lose another instant. We
“Thank you!” said Holmes, folding up the paper and returning it to our

“12th. Visited Paramore. All well.”

“10th. John Swain cleared.

“9th. McCauley cleared.

Augustine.
“7th. Set the pips on McCauley, Paramore, and John Swain of St.

“4th. Hudson came. Same old platform.

notices:
was headed, “March, 1869,” and beneath were the following enigmatical
showed by its ragged edge that it had indeed been torn from a book. It
Holmes moved the lamp, and we both bent over the sheet of paper, which

writing is undoubtedly my uncle’s.”
much. I think myself that it is a page from some private diary. The
destruction. Beyond the mention of pips, I do not see that it helps us
fluttered out from among the others, and in that way has escaped
inclined to think that it may be one of the papers which has, perhaps,
colour. I found this single sheet upon the floor of his room, and I am
unburned margins which lay amid the ashes were of this particular
on the day when my uncle burned the papers I observed that the small,
laid it out upon the table. “I have some remembrance,” said he, “that
pocket, and, drawing out a piece of discoloured, blue-tinted paper, he
“There is one thing,” said John Openshaw. He rummaged in his coat

you have placed before us—no suggestive detail which might help us?”
before this. You have no further evidence, I suppose, than that which
“It is really two days since you had the letter. We should have acted

about my troubles and was advised by him to come to you.”
“I did not know. It was only to-day that I spoke to Major Prendergast

come at once?”
“Why did you come to me?” he said, “and, above all, why did you not

Again Holmes raved in the air.

“No. His orders were to stay in the house.”

“Has he come with you to-night?”

house with me.”
“They have, however, allowed me a policeman, who may remain in the

cried.
Holmes shook his clenched hands in the air. “Incredible imbecility!” he

the jury stated, and were not to be connected with the warnings.”
jokes, and that the deaths of my relations were really accidents, as
inspector has formed the opinion that the letters are all practical
“But they listened to my story with a smile. I am convinced that the

“Ah!”

“I have seen the police.”

Nothing but energy can save you. This is no time for despair.”
“Tut! tut!” cried Sherlock Holmes. “You must act, man, or you are lost.

guard against.”
resistless, inexorable evil, which no foresight and no precautions can
snake is writhing towards it. I seem to be in the grasp of some
felt helpless. I have felt like one of those poor rabbits when the
“To tell the truth”—he sank his face into his thin, white hands—“I have

“Nothing?”

“Nothing.”

“What have you done?” asked Holmes.

message: ‘K. K. K.’; and then ‘Put the papers on the sundial.’”
division. Within are the very words which were upon my father’s last
“This is the envelope,” he continued. “The postmark is London—eastern

to the table he shook out upon it five little dried orange pips.
The young man took from his waistcoat a crumpled envelope, and turning

fell in the very shape in which it had come upon my father.”
had begun to take comfort too soon, however; yesterday morning the blow
away from the family, and that it had ended with the last generation. I
happily at Horsham, and I had begun to hope that this curse had passed
and eight months have elapsed since then. During that time I have lived
“It was in January, ’85, that my poor father met his end, and two years

another.
life, and that the danger would be as pressing in one house as in
troubles were in some way dependent upon an incident in my uncle’s
did not dispose of it? I answer, because I was well convinced that our
“In this sinister way I came into my inheritance. You will ask me why I

was well-nigh certain that some foul plot had been woven round him.
yet I need not tell you that my mind was far from at ease, and that I
robbery, no record of strangers having been seen upon the roads. And
idea of murder. There were no signs of violence, no footmarks, no
with his death, I was unable to find anything which could suggest the
from accidental causes.’ Carefully as I examined every fact connected
unfenced, the jury had no hesitation in bringing in a verdict of ‘death
the twilight, and as the country was unknown to him, and the chalk-pit
consciousness. He had, as it appears, been returning from Fareham in
I hurried to him, but he passed away without having ever recovered his
in the neighbourhood, and was lying senseless, with a shattered skull.
once. My father had fallen over one of the deep chalk-pits which abound
absence I received a telegram from the major, imploring me to come at
from home. In that, however, I was in error. Upon the second day of his
for it seemed to me that he was farther from danger when he was away
of one of the forts upon Portsdown Hill. I was glad that he should go,
home to visit an old friend of his, Major Freebody, who is in command
“On the third day after the coming of the letter my father went from

went about, however, with a heart which was full of forebodings.
“It was in vain to argue with him, for he was a very obstinate man. I

“‘No, I forbid you. I won’t have a fuss made about such nonsense.’

“‘Then let me do so?’

“‘And be laughed at for my pains. Nothing of the sort.’

“‘I should certainly speak to the police,’ I said.

sundials and papers? I shall take no notice of such nonsense.’
“‘Some preposterous practical joke,’ said he. ‘What have I to do with

“‘From Dundee,’ I answered, glancing at the postmark.

thing come from?’
land here, and we can’t have tomfoolery of this kind. Where does the
“‘Pooh!’ said he, gripping hard at his courage. ‘We are in a civilised

papers must be those that are destroyed.’
“‘The sundial in the garden. There is no other,’ said I; ‘but the

“‘What papers? What sundial?’ he asked.

“‘Put the papers on the sundial,’ I read, peeping over his shoulder.

very letters. But what is this written above them?’
“He looked inside the envelope. ‘So it is,’ he cried. ‘Here are the

“My heart had turned to lead. ‘It is K. K. K.,’ said I.

“‘Why, what on earth does this mean, John?’ he stammered.

himself.
he looked very scared and puzzled now that the same thing had come upon
laughed at what he called my cock-and-bull story about the colonel, but
orange pips in the outstretched palm of the other one. He had always
he was, sitting with a newly opened envelope in one hand and five dried
sharp cry of surprise as we sat together at the breakfast-table. There
’85. On the fourth day after the new year I heard my father give a
Horsham, and all went as well as possible with us until the January of
“Well, it was the beginning of ’84 when my father came to live at

carpet-bag politicians who had been sent down from the North.
with politics, for he had evidently taken a strong part in opposing the
the reconstruction of the Southern states, and were mostly concerned
had borne the repute of a brave soldier. Others were of a date during
them were of the war time and showed that he had done his duty well and
papers and note-books bearing upon my uncle’s life in America. Some of
nothing of much importance in the attic save a great many scattered
which had been destroyed by Colonel Openshaw. For the rest, there was
written beneath. These, we presume, indicated the nature of the papers
K. repeated upon it, and ‘Letters, memoranda, receipts, and a register’
the inside of the cover was a paper label, with the initials of K. K.
found the brass box there, although its contents had been destroyed. On
a careful examination of the attic, which had been always locked up. We
“When my father took over the Horsham property, he, at my request, made

“Thank you. Pray proceed.”

upon the night of May 2nd.”
“The letter arrived on March 10, 1883. His death was seven weeks later,

supposed suicide.”
of the reception by your uncle of the letter, and the date of his
the most remarkable to which I have ever listened. Let me have the date
“One moment,” Holmes interposed, “your statement is, I foresee, one of

some £ 14,000, which lay to his credit at the bank.”
however, and my father entered into possession of the estate, and of
myself that he had gone out of his way to meet it. The matter passed,
how he winced from the very thought of death, had much ado to persuade
known eccentricity, brought in a verdict of ‘suicide.’ But I, who knew
water was but two feet deep, so that the jury, having regard to his
at the foot of the garden. There was no sign of any violence, and the
search for him, face downward in a little green-scummed pool, which lay
sallies from which he never came back. We found him, when we went to
your patience, there came a night when he made one of those drunken
“Well, to come to an end of the matter, Mr. Holmes, and not to abuse

day, glisten with moisture, as though it were new raised from a basin.
roots of his soul. At such times I have seen his face, even on a cold
who can brazen it out no longer against the terror which lies at the
tumultuously in at the door and lock and bar it behind him, like a man
man or devil. When these hot fits were over, however, he would rush
no man, and that he was not to be cooped up, like a sheep in a pen, by
garden with a revolver in his hand, screaming out that he was afraid of
drunken frenzy and would burst out of the house and tear about the
locked upon the inside, but sometimes he would emerge in a sort of
society. Most of his time he would spend in his room, with the door
He drank more than ever, and he was less inclined for any sort of
usual routine of our lives. I could see a change in my uncle, however.
grew less keen as the weeks passed and nothing happened to disturb the
the vague feeling of dread which it left behind, though the sensation
without being able to make anything of it. Yet I could not shake off
upon me, and I pondered over it and turned it every way in my mind
The singular incident made, as you may think, the deepest impression
“I signed the paper as directed, and the lawyer took it away with him.

going to take. Kindly sign the paper where Mr. Fordham shows you.’
give you such a two-edged thing, but I can’t say what turn things are
advice, my boy, and leave it to your deadliest enemy. I am sorry to
can enjoy it in peace, well and good! If you find you cannot, take my
brother, your father, whence it will, no doubt, descend to you. If you
estate, with all its advantages and all its disadvantages, to my
“‘I wish you, John,’ said my uncle, ‘to witness my will. I leave my

read in the morning upon the envelope.
with a start, that upon the lid was printed the treble K which I had
box stood open and empty beside it. As I glanced at the box I noticed,
was a mass of black, fluffy ashes, as of burned paper, while the brass
up to the room. The fire was burning brightly, and in the grate there
“I did as he ordered, and when the lawyer arrived I was asked to step

and send down to Fordham, the Horsham lawyer.’
with an oath. ‘Tell Mary that I shall want a fire in my room to-day,
“‘They may do what they like, but I’ll checkmate them still,’ said he

and a small brass box, like a cashbox, in the other.
an old rusty key, which must have belonged to the attic, in one hand,
breakfast-table, and as I ascended the stair I met him coming down with
pips. What could be the reason of his overpowering terror? I left the
K three times repeated. There was nothing else save the five dried
scrawled in red ink upon the inner flap, just above the gum, the letter
leaving me palpitating with horror. I took up the envelope and saw
“‘Death,’ said he, and rising from the table he retired to his room,

“‘What is it, uncle?’ I cried.

then, ‘My God, my God, my sins have overtaken me!’
which he still held in his trembling hand, ‘K. K. K.!’ he shrieked, and
protruding, his skin the colour of putty, and he glared at the envelope
lips at the sight of his face. His lip had fallen, his eyes were
his plate. I began to laugh at this, but the laugh was struck from my
there jumped five little dried orange pips, which pattered down upon
up, ‘Pondicherry postmark! What can this be?’ Opening it hurriedly, out
and he had no friends of any sort. ‘From India!’ said he as he took it
for him to receive letters, for his bills were all paid in ready money,
the table in front of the colonel’s plate. It was not a common thing
“One day—it was in March, 1883—a letter with a foreign stamp lay upon

bundles as would be expected in such a room.
was never able to see more than such a collection of old trunks and
enter. With a boy’s curiosity I have peeped through the keyhole, but I
locked, and which he would never permit either me or anyone else to
single room, a lumber-room up among the attics, which was invariably
in his privacy. There was one singular exception, however, for he had a
go where I liked and do what I liked, so long as I did not disturb him
sixteen I was quite master of the house. I kept all the keys and could
servants and with the tradespeople, so that by the time that I was
draughts with me, and he would make me his representative both with the
his way. When he was sober he used to be fond of playing backgammon and
begged my father to let me live with him and he was very kind to me in
in the year 1878, after he had been eight or nine years in England. He
when he saw me first I was a youngster of twelve or so. This would be
“He didn’t mind me; in fact, he took a fancy to me, for at the time

did not want any friends, not even his own brother.
deal of brandy and smoked very heavily, but he would see no society and
often for weeks on end he would never leave his room. He drank a great
round his house, and there he would take his exercise, though very
ever he set foot in the town. He had a garden and two or three fields
disposition. During all the years that he lived at Horsham, I doubt if
very foul-mouthed when he was angry, and of a most retiring
franchise to them. He was a singular man, fierce and quick-tempered,
negroes, and his dislike of the Republican policy in extending the
in the States, and his reason for leaving them was his aversion to the
estate in Sussex, near Horsham. He had made a very considerable fortune
years. About 1869 or 1870 he came back to Europe and took a small
uncle returned to his plantation, where he remained for three or four
Hood, where he rose to be a colonel. When Lee laid down his arms my
the time of the war he fought in Jackson’s army, and afterwards under
a planter in Florida, where he was reported to have done very well. At
“My uncle Elias emigrated to America when he was a young man and became

competence.
success that he was able to sell it and to retire upon a handsome
of the Openshaw unbreakable tire, and his business met with such
enlarged at the time of the invention of bicycling. He was a patentee
father Joseph. My father had a small factory at Coventry, which he
“You must know that my grandfather had two sons—my uncle Elias and my

go back to the commencement of the affair.
hereditary matter; so in order to give you an idea of the facts, I must
as I can understand, little to do with this awful business. It is a
“My name,” said he, “is John Openshaw, but my own affairs have, as far

the blaze.
The young man pulled his chair up and pushed his wet feet out towards

those details which seem to me to be most important.”
facts from the commencement, and I can afterwards question you as to
“You fill me with interest,” said Holmes. “Pray give us the essential

than those which have happened in my own family.”
ever listened to a more mysterious and inexplicable chain of events
“And yet I question, sir, whether, in all your experience, you have

“None of those which come to me are. I am the last court of appeal.”

“It is no ordinary one.”

some details as to your case.”
“I beg that you will draw your chair up to the fire and favour me with

“Then you may be so with me.”

“It is true that I have been generally successful.”

“But what is that compared with the number of your successes?”

woman.”
“I have been beaten four times—three times by men, and once by a

“That you are never beaten.”

“He said too much.”

“He said that you could solve anything.”

“Ah, of course. He was wrongfully accused of cheating at cards.”

you saved him in the Tankerville Club scandal.”
“I have heard of you, Mr. Holmes. I heard from Major Prendergast how

“That is not always so easy.”

“And help.”

“That is easily got.”

“I have come for advice.”

distinctive.”
“That clay and chalk mixture which I see upon your toe caps is quite

“Yes, from Horsham.”

south-west, I see.”
the hook and will be dry presently. You have come up from the
“Give me your coat and umbrella,” said Holmes. “They may rest here on

traces of the storm and rain into your snug chamber.”
eyes. “I trust that I am not intruding. I fear that I have brought some
“I owe you an apology,” he said, raising his golden pince-nez to his

man who is weighed down with some great anxiety.
could see that his face was pale and his eyes heavy, like those of a
had come. He looked about him anxiously in the glare of the lamp, and I
his long shining waterproof told of the fierce weather through which he
in his bearing. The streaming umbrella which he held in his hand, and
well-groomed and trimly clad, with something of refinement and delicacy
The man who entered was young, some two-and-twenty at the outside,

“Come in!” said he.

chair upon which a newcomer must sit.
long arm to turn the lamp away from himself and towards the vacant
step in the passage and a tapping at the door. He stretched out his
Sherlock Holmes was wrong in his conjecture, however, for there came a

be some crony of the landlady’s.”
such a day and at such an hour. But I take it that it is more likely to
“If so, it is a serious case. Nothing less would bring a man out on

“A client, then?”

visitors.”
“Except yourself I have none,” he answered. “I do not encourage

Who could come to-night? Some friend of yours, perhaps?”
“Why,” said I, glancing up at my companion, “that was surely the bell.

more in my old quarters at Baker Street.
on a visit to her mother’s, and for a few days I was a dweller once
rain to lengthen out into the long swash of the sea waves. My wife was
gale from without seemed to blend with the text, and the splash of the
deep in one of Clark Russell’s fine sea-stories until the howl of the
fireplace cross-indexing his records of crime, while I at the other was
child in the chimney. Sherlock Holmes sat moodily at one side of the
storm grew higher and louder, and the wind cried and sobbed like a
civilisation, like untamed beasts in a cage. As evening drew in, the
great elemental forces which shriek at mankind through the bars of his
instant from the routine of life and to recognise the presence of those
great, hand-made London we were forced to raise our minds for the
rain had beaten against the windows, so that even here in the heart of
set in with exceptional violence. All day the wind had screamed and the
It was in the latter days of September, and the equinoctial gales had

now taken up my pen to describe.
singular features as the strange train of circumstances which I have
I may sketch out at some future date, but none of them present such
which was of the greatest importance in clearing up the case. All these
therefore the deceased had gone to bed within that time—a deduction
watch, to prove that it had been wound up two hours before, and that
remembered, Sherlock Holmes was able, by winding up the dead man’s
finally of the Camberwell poisoning case. In the latter, as may be
singular adventures of the Grice Patersons in the island of Uffa, and
connected with the loss of the British barque _Sophy Anderson_, of the
club in the lower vault of a furniture warehouse, of the facts
Paradol Chamber, of the Amateur Mendicant Society, who held a luxurious
this one twelve months I find an account of the adventure of the
less interest, of which I retain the records. Among my headings under
The year ’87 furnished us with a long series of cases of greater or

entirely cleared up.
connection with it which never have been, and probably never will be,
some account of it in spite of the fact that there are points in
its details and so startling in its results that I am tempted to give
him. There is, however, one of these last which was so remarkable in
and surmise than on that absolute logical proof which was so dear to
cleared up, and have their explanations founded rather upon conjecture
beginnings without an ending, while others have been but partially
have baffled his analytical skill, and would be, as narratives,
and which it is the object of these papers to illustrate. Some, too,
those peculiar qualities which my friend possessed in so high a degree,
publicity through the papers, and others have not offered a field for
which to choose and which to leave. Some, however, have already gained
strange and interesting features that it is no easy matter to know
between the years ’82 and ’90, I am faced by so many which present
When I glance over my notes and records of the Sherlock Holmes cases

V. THE FIVE ORANGE PIPS



black cloud which rests upon their past.
and daughter may come to live happily together in ignorance of the
interview, but he is now dead; and there is every prospect that the son
defending counsel. Old Turner lived for seven months after our
of objections which had been drawn out by Holmes and submitted to the
James McCarthy was acquitted at the Assizes on the strength of a number

the grace of God, goes Sherlock Holmes.’”
this that I do not think of Baxter’s words, and say, ‘There, but for
such tricks with poor, helpless worms? I never hear of such a case as
“God help us!” said Holmes after a long silence. “Why does fate play

stumbled slowly from the room.
have given to mine.” Tottering and shaking in all his giant frame, he
they come, will be the easier for the thought of the peace which you
“Farewell, then,” said the old man solemnly. “Your own deathbeds, when

your secret, whether you be alive or dead, shall be safe with us.”
forced to use it. If not, it shall never be seen by mortal eye; and
will keep your confession, and if McCarthy is condemned I shall be
soon have to answer for your deed at a higher court than the Assizes. I
“In view of your health, nothing. You are yourself aware that you will

“I pray not, sir. And what do you intend to do?”

never be exposed to such a temptation.”
signed the statement which had been drawn out. “I pray that we may
“Well, it is not for me to judge you,” said Holmes as the old man

story, gentlemen, of all that occurred.”
to fetch the cloak which I had dropped in my flight. That is the true
but I had gained the cover of the wood, though I was forced to go back
he had been some foul and venomous beast. His cry brought back his son;
than I could suffer. I struck him down with no more compunction than if
my girl should be entangled in the same meshes which held me was more
have sinned, I have led a life of martyrdom to atone for it. But that
foul tongue. I did it, Mr. Holmes. I would do it again. Deeply as I
memory and my girl! Both could be saved if I could but silence that
and fairly strong of limb, I knew that my own fate was sealed. But my
bond? I was already a dying and a desperate man. Though clear of mind
should be in the power of such a man as this. Could I not snap the
streets. It drove me mad to think that I and all that I held most dear
regard for what she might think as if she were a slut from off the
uppermost. He was urging his son to marry my daughter with as little
listened to his talk all that was black and bitter in me seemed to come
cigar and waited behind a tree until he should be alone. But as I
“When I went down there I found him talking with his son, so I smoked a

the pool midway between our houses to talk it over.
McCarthy threatened. I braved him to do his worst. We were to meet at
the lad, but his blood was in him, and that was enough. I stood firm.
have his cursed stock mixed with mine; not that I had any dislike to
should step into the whole property. But there I was firm. I would not
to be in weak health, it seemed a fine stroke to him that his lad
“His son, you see, had grown up, and so had my girl, and as I was known

he asked a thing which I could not give. He asked for Alice.
it was I gave him without question, land, money, houses, until at last
past than of the police. Whatever he wanted he must have, and whatever
as Alice grew up, for he soon saw I was more afraid of her knowing my
would, there was his cunning, grinning face at my elbow. It grew worse
There was no rest for me, no peace, no forgetfulness; turn where I
off, and there they have lived rent free on my best land ever since.
“Well, down they came to the west country, there was no shaking them

is England, and there’s always a policeman within hail.’
have the keeping of us. If you don’t—it’s a fine, law-abiding country
good as a family to you. There’s two of us, me and my son, and you can
“‘Here we are, Jack,’ says he, touching me on the arm; ‘we’ll be as

Street with hardly a coat to his back or a boot to his foot.
“I had gone up to town about an investment, and I met him in Regent

laid his grip upon me.
did my best to make up for the past. All was going well when McCarthy
as nothing else had ever done. In a word, I turned over a new leaf and
she was just a baby her wee hand seemed to lead me down the right path
though my wife died young she left me my dear little Alice. Even when
make up for the way in which I had earned it. I married, too, and
in the market, and I set myself to do a little good with my money, to
quiet and respectable life. I bought this estate, which chanced to be
There I parted from my old pals and determined to settle down to a
wealthy men, and made our way over to England without being suspected.
though to remember every feature. We got away with the gold, became
spared him, though I saw his wicked little eyes fixed on my face, as
very man McCarthy. I wish to the Lord that I had shot him then, but I
swag. I put my pistol to the head of the wagon-driver, who was this
first volley. Three of our boys were killed, however, before we got the
so it was a close thing, but we emptied four of their saddles at the
in wait for it and attacked it. There were six troopers and six of us,
“One day a gold convoy came down from Ballarat to Melbourne, and we lay

and our party is still remembered in the colony as the Ballarat Gang.
road to the diggings. Black Jack of Ballarat was the name I went under,
sticking up a station from time to time, or stopping the wagons on the
robber. There were six of us, and we had a wild, free life of it,
the bush, and in a word became what you would call over here a highway
among bad companions, took to drink, had no luck with my claim, took to
hot-blooded and reckless, ready to turn my hand at anything; I got
“It was in the early ’60’s at the diggings. I was a young chap then,

life. I’ll tell you first how I came to be in his power.
His grip has been upon me these twenty years, and he has blasted my
tell you that. God keep you out of the clutches of such a man as he.
“You didn’t know this dead man, McCarthy. He was a devil incarnate. I

been a long time in the acting, but will not take me long to tell.
Alice the shock. And now I will make the thing clear to you; it has
to the Assizes, so it matters little to me, but I should wish to spare
“It’s as well,” said the old man; “it’s a question whether I shall live

absolutely needed.”
young McCarthy. I promise you that I shall not use it unless it is
Then I could produce your confession at the last extremity to save
jot down the facts. You will sign it, and Watson here can witness it.
bundle of paper before him. “Just tell us the truth,” he said. “I shall
Holmes rose and sat down at the table with his pen in his hand and a

rather die under my own roof than in a gaol.”
doctor says it is a question whether I shall live a month. Yet I would
“I am a dying man,” said old Turner. “I have had diabetes for years. My

McCarthy must be got off, however.”
required my presence here, and I am acting in her interests. Young
“I am no official agent. I understand that it was your daughter who

“What?”

“It may not come to that,” said Holmes.

arrested.”
break her heart—it will break her heart when she hears that I am
“I would have spoken now had it not been for my dear girl. It would

“I am glad to hear you say so,” said Holmes gravely.

I would have spoken out if it went against him at the Assizes.”
would not have let the young man come to harm. I give you my word that
The old man sank his face in his hands. “God help me!” he cried. “But I

so. I know all about McCarthy.”
“Yes,” said Holmes, answering the look rather than the words. “It is

despair in his weary eyes, as though his question was already answered.
“And why did you wish to see me?” He looked across at my companion with

“I thought people would talk if I went to the Hall.”

me here to avoid scandal.”
“Yes, the lodge-keeper brought it up. You said that you wished to see

“Pray sit down on the sofa,” said Holmes gently. “You had my note?”

disease.
to me at a glance that he was in the grip of some deadly and chronic
corners of his nostrils were tinged with a shade of blue. It was clear
appearance, but his face was of an ashen white, while his lips and the
eyebrows combined to give an air of dignity and power to his
character. His tangled beard, grizzled hair, and outstanding, drooping
showed that he was possessed of unusual strength of body and of
and yet his hard, deep-lined, craggy features, and his enormous limbs
limping step and bowed shoulders gave the appearance of decrepitude,
The man who entered was a strange and impressive figure. His slow,

sitting-room, and ushering in a visitor.
“Mr. John Turner,” cried the hotel waiter, opening the door of our

which all this points. The culprit is—”
you had cut the cord which was hanging him. I see the direction in
cannot escape, and you have saved an innocent human life as truly as if
“Holmes,” I said, “you have drawn a net round this man from which he

a clean one, so I deduced a blunt pen-knife.”
a holder. The tip had been cut off, not bitten off, but the cut was not
“I could see that the end had not been in his mouth. Therefore he used

“And the cigar-holder?”

are rolled in Rotterdam.”
where he had tossed it. It was an Indian cigar, of the variety which
the ash, I then looked round and discovered the stump among the moss
different varieties of pipe, cigar, and cigarette tobacco. Having found
attention to this, and written a little monograph on the ashes of 140
me to pronounce as an Indian cigar. I have, as you know, devoted some
the ash of a cigar, which my special knowledge of tobacco ashes enables
interview between the father and son. He had even smoked there. I found
were by a left-handed man? He had stood behind that tree during the
behind, and yet was upon the left side. Now, how can that be unless it
the surgeon at the inquest. The blow was struck from immediately
“You were yourself struck by the nature of the injury as recorded by

“But his left-handedness.”

left. He put less weight upon it. Why? Because he limped—he was lame.”
“The impression of his right foot was always less distinct than his

“But his lameness?”

“Yes, they were peculiar boots.”

stride. His boots, too, might be told from their traces.”
“His height I know that you might roughly judge from the length of his

“You know my method. It is founded upon the observation of trifles.”

“But how did you gain them?”

to the personality of the criminal.”
gained the trifling details which I gave to that imbecile Lestrade, as
“Then comes our expedition of to-day. By an examination of the ground I

“Quite so.”

wander.”
approached by the farm or by the estate, where strangers could hardly
“And one who was at home in the district, for the pool can only be

“Certainly.”

Australian from Ballarat with a grey cloak.”
come now out of mere vagueness to the definite conception of an
granting the son’s statement to be correct, was a certainty. We have
considerably. The possession of a grey garment was a third point which,
“It is obvious. And now, you see, I had narrowed the field down

“It is wonderful!” I exclaimed.

murderer. So and so, of Ballarat.”
caught the last two syllables. He was trying to utter the name of his
“Quite so. That was the word the man uttered, and of which his son only

“BALLARAT.”

“And now?” He raised his hand.

“ARAT,” I read.

the map. “What do you read?”
“I wired to Bristol for it last night.” He put his hand over part of
out on the table. “This is a map of the Colony of Victoria,” he said.
Sherlock Holmes took a folded paper from his pocket and flattened it

“What of the rat, then?”

at Boscombe Pool was someone who had been in Australia.”
strong presumption that the person whom McCarthy expected to meet him
Australian cry, and one which is used between Australians. There is a
was that he had the appointment with. But ‘Cooee’ is a distinctly
earshot. The ‘Cooee!’ was meant to attract the attention of whoever it
far as he knew, was in Bristol. It was mere chance that he was within
“Well, obviously it could not have been meant for the son. The son, as

“What of this ‘Cooee!’ then?”

begin it by presuming that what the lad says is absolutely true.”
ear. Now from this double point our research must commence, and we will
several words, you understand, but that was all that caught the son’s
him. The other was his singular dying reference to a rat. He mumbled
his father should, according to his account, cry ‘Cooee!’ before seeing
impressed me in his favour and you against him. One was the fact that
McCarthy’s narrative which struck us both instantly, although they
“Well, now, in considering this case there are two points about young

 “Pray do so.”

expound.”
what to do, and I should value your advice. Light a cigar and let me
in this chair and let me preach to you for a little. I don’t know quite
“Look here, Watson,” he said when the cloth was cleared “just sit down

perplexing position.
with a pained expression upon his face, as one who finds himself in a
found lunch upon the table. Holmes was silent and buried in thought
Having left Lestrade at his rooms, we drove to our hotel, where we

are your lodgings. Good-bye. I shall drop you a line before I leave.”
“All right,” said Holmes quietly. “I have given you the chance. Here

laughing-stock of Scotland Yard.”
left-handed gentleman with a game leg. I should become the
I really cannot undertake to go about the country looking for a
Lestrade shrugged his shoulders. “I am a practical man,” he said, “and

populous neighbourhood.”
“Surely it would not be difficult to find out. This is not such a

“But who is he?”

“The gentleman I describe.”

“Who was the criminal, then?”

“It is solved.”

“But the mystery?”

“No, finished.”

“And leave your case unfinished?”

probably return to London by the evening train.”
and I shall work mine. I shall be busy this afternoon, and shall
“_Nous verrons_,” answered Holmes calmly. “You work your own method,

British jury.”
“Theories are all very well, but we have to deal with a hard-headed
Lestrade laughed. “I am afraid that I am still a sceptic,” he said.

search.”
several other indications, but these may be enough to aid us in our
a cigar-holder, and carries a blunt pen-knife in his pocket. There are
thick-soled shooting-boots and a grey cloak, smokes Indian cigars, uses
“Is a tall man, left-handed, limps with the right leg, wears

“And the murderer?”

with the injuries. There is no sign of any other weapon.”
There was no sign of a place whence it had been taken. It corresponds
“The grass was growing under it. It had only lain there a few days.

“How do you know, then?”

“There are none.”

“I see no marks.”

murder was done with it.”
“This may interest you, Lestrade,” he remarked, holding it out. “The

in the wood.
Ross, Holmes still carrying with him the stone which he had picked up
It was about ten minutes before we regained our cab and drove back into

luncheon. You may walk to the cab, and I shall be with you presently.”
perhaps write a little note. Having done that, we may drive back to our
be the lodge. I think that I will go in and have a word with Moran, and
to his natural manner. “I fancy that this grey house on the right must
“It has been a case of considerable interest,” he remarked, returning

wood until he came to the highroad, where all traces were lost.
carefully examined and retained. Then he followed a pathway through the
reach. A jagged stone was lying among the moss, and this also he
not only the ground but even the bark of the tree as far as he could
seemed to me to be dust into an envelope and examining with his lens
there, turning over the leaves and dried sticks, gathering up what
his face with a little cry of satisfaction. For a long time he remained
traced his way to the farther side of this and lay down once more upon
shadow of a great beech, the largest tree in the neighbourhood. Holmes
track until we were well within the edge of the wood and under the
come from?” He ran up and down, sometimes losing, sometimes finding the
they come again—of course that was for the cloak. Now where did they
Tiptoes! tiptoes! Square, too, quite unusual boots! They come, they go,
gun as the son stood listening. And this? Ha, ha! What have we here?
as he paced up and down. What is this, then? It is the butt-end of the
when he saw his father on the ground. Then here are the father’s feet
marked and the heels hardly visible. That bears out his story. He ran
he was walking, and once he ran swiftly, so that the soles are deeply
rather to himself than to us. “These are young McCarthy’s feet. Twice
down upon his waterproof to have a better view, talking all the time
three separate tracks of the same feet.” He drew out a lens and lay
covered all tracks for six or eight feet round the body. But here are
it. Here is where the party with the lodge-keeper came, and they have
been here before they came like a herd of buffalo and wallowed all over
vanishes among the reeds. Oh, how simple it would all have been had I
twist is all over the place. A mole could trace it, and there it
“Oh, tut, tut! I have no time! That left foot of yours with its inward

other trace. But how on earth—”
“I fished about with a rake. I thought there might be some weapon or

“What did you go into the pool for?” he asked.

then turned upon my companion.
trampled grass. He ran round, like a dog who is picking up a scent, and
face and peering eyes, very many other things were to be read upon the
the fall of the stricken man. To Holmes, as I could see by his eager
the ground, that I could plainly see the traces which had been left by
exact spot at which the body had been found, and, indeed, so moist was
the trees and the reeds which lined the lake. Lestrade showed us the
a narrow belt of sodden grass twenty paces across between the edge of
the Hatherley side of the pool the woods grew very thick, and there was
pinnacles which marked the site of the rich landowner’s dwelling. On
which lined it upon the farther side we could see the red, jutting
Farm and the private park of the wealthy Mr. Turner. Above the woods
fifty yards across, is situated at the boundary between the Hatherley
The Boscombe Pool, which is a little reed-girt sheet of water some

was directed towards a definite end.
interest which sprang from the conviction that every one of his actions
indifferent and contemptuous, while I watched my friend with the
detour into the meadow. Lestrade and I walked behind him, the detective
would hurry on, sometimes stop dead, and once he made quite a little
amid the short grass which bounded it on either side. Sometimes Holmes
district, and there were marks of many feet, both upon the path and
woods to the Boscombe Pool. It was damp, marshy ground, as is all that
along the track which ran through the meadows, and so by way of the
quick, impatient snarl in reply. Swiftly and silently he made his way
remark fell unheeded upon his ears, or, at the most, only provoked a
absolutely concentrated upon the matter before him that a question or
to dilate with a purely animal lust for the chase, and his mind was so
stood out like whipcord in his long, sinewy neck. His nostrils seemed
bent downward, his shoulders bowed, his lips compressed, and the veins
eyes shone out from beneath them with a steely glitter. His face was
darkened. His brows were drawn into two hard black lines, while his
Street would have failed to recognise him. His face flushed and
this. Men who had only known the quiet thinker and logician of Baker
Sherlock Holmes was transformed when he was hot upon such a scent as

which we all followed the winding track which led to Boscombe Pool.
different points, Holmes desired to be led to the court-yard, from
then had. Having measured these very carefully from seven or eight
death, and also a pair of the son’s, though not the pair which he had
request, showed us the boots which her master wore at the time of his
heavy upon it. We called at the door, when the maid, at Holmes’
gave it a stricken look, as though the weight of this horror still lay
the grey walls. The drawn blinds and the smokeless chimneys, however,
two-storied, slate-roofed, with great yellow blotches of lichen upon
“Yes, that is it.” It was a widespread, comfortable-looking building,

left.”
“But I am very much mistaken if this is not Hatherley Farm upon the
“Well, moonshine is a brighter thing than fog,” said Holmes, laughing.

theories to the contrary are the merest moonshine.”
“That McCarthy senior met his death from McCarthy junior and that all

“And that is—”

get hold of,” replied Lestrade with some warmth.
“Anyhow, I have grasped one fact which you seem to find it difficult to

tackle the facts.”
“You are right,” said Holmes demurely; “you do find it very hard to

flying away after theories and fancies.”
winking at me. “I find it hard enough to tackle facts, Holmes, without
“We have got to the deductions and the inferences,” said Lestrade,

as much. Do you not deduce something from that?”
know that Turner himself was averse to the idea. The daughter told us
proposal and all else would follow? It is the more strange, since we
that in such a very cocksure manner, as if it were merely a case of a
to Turner’s daughter, who is, presumably, heiress to the estate, and
under such obligations to Turner, should still talk of marrying his son
McCarthy, who appears to have had little of his own, and to have been
“Really! Does it not strike you as a little singular that this

here speaks of his kindness to him.”
“Oh, yes! In a hundred other ways he has helped him. Everybody about

“Indeed! That is interesting,” said Holmes.

gave him Hatherley Farm rent free.”
and, I may add, a great benefactor to him, for I have learned that he
has had a very bad effect upon him. He was an old friend of McCarthy’s,
abroad, and he has been in failing health for some time. This business
“About sixty; but his constitution has been shattered by his life

“An elderly man, I presume?” said Holmes.

that Mr. Turner, of the Hall, is so ill that his life is despaired of.”
“There is serious news this morning,” Lestrade observed. “It is said

carriage, and we set off for Hatherley Farm and the Boscombe Pool.
and cloudless. At nine o’clock Lestrade called for us with the
There was no rain, as Holmes had foretold, and the morning broke bright

leave all minor matters until to-morrow.”
now let us talk about George Meredith, if you please, and we shall
returned. Those are the crucial points upon which the case depends. And
murdered man was heard to cry ‘Cooee!’ before he knew that his son had
away, and he did not know when he would return. The second is that the
pool, and that the someone could not have been his son, for his son was
One is that the murdered man had an appointment with someone at the
“Ah! who? I would call your attention very particularly to two points.

“But if he is innocent, who has done it?”

that he has suffered.”
them. I think that that bit of news has consoled young McCarthy for all
already in the Bermuda Dockyard, so that there is really no tie between
over utterly and has written to him to say that she has a husband
that he is in serious trouble and likely to be hanged, has thrown him
come out of evil, however, for the barmaid, finding from the papers
not know where he was. Mark that point. It is of importance. Good has
that he had spent the last three days in Bristol, and his father did
him over utterly had he known the truth. It was with his barmaid wife
his father, who was by all accounts a very hard man, would have thrown
Turner. On the other hand, he had no means of supporting himself, and
father, at their last interview, was goading him on to propose to Miss
this sort which made him throw his hands up into the air when his
but what he knows to be absolutely impossible. It was sheer frenzy of
to be upbraided for not doing what he would give his very eyes to do,
word of the matter, but you can imagine how maddening it must be to him
a barmaid in Bristol and marry her at a registry office? No one knows a
a boarding-school, what does the idiot do but get into the clutches of
lad, and before he really knew her, for she had been away five years at
insanely, in love with her, but some two years ago, when he was only a
“Ah, thereby hangs a rather painful tale. This fellow is madly,

Turner.”
he was averse to a marriage with so charming a young lady as this Miss
“I cannot admire his taste,” I remarked, “if it is indeed a fact that

though comely to look at and, I should think, sound at heart.”
as puzzled as everyone else. He is not a very quick-witted youth,
done it and was screening him or her, but I am convinced now that he is
“None at all. I was inclined to think at one time that he knew who had

“Could he throw no light?”

“Nothing.”

“And what did you learn from him?”

a long journey. I have seen young McCarthy.”
for such nice work as that, and I did not wish to do it when fagged by
ground. On the other hand, a man should be at his very best and keenest
of importance that it should not rain before we are able to go over the
“The glass still keeps very high,” he remarked as he sat down. “It is

Lestrade was staying in lodgings in the town.
It was late before Sherlock Holmes returned. He came back alone, for

his conviction of young McCarthy’s innocence.
could not lose hope as long as every fresh fact seemed to strengthen
opinion, and yet I had so much faith in Sherlock Holmes’ insight that I
improbabilities the whole thing was! I did not wonder at Lestrade’s
turned not a dozen paces off. What a tissue of mysteries and
to carry it away at the instant when the son was kneeling with his back
overcoat, in his flight, and must have had the hardihood to return and
the murderer must have dropped some part of his dress, presumably his
incident of the grey cloth seen by young McCarthy. If that were true
cudgelled my brains to find some possible explanation. And then the
attempt to explain how he met his fate. But what could it indicate? I
does not commonly become delirious. No, it was more likely to be an
that mean? It could not be delirium. A man dying from a sudden blow
it. Then there was the peculiar dying reference to a rat. What could
blow fell. Still, it might be worth while to call Holmes’ attention to
for very much, for the older man might have turned his back before the
quarrelling he was face to face with his father. Still, it did not go
That was to some extent in favour of the accused, as when seen
my own head. Clearly such a blow must have been struck from behind.
shattered by a heavy blow from a blunt weapon. I marked the spot upon
the left parietal bone and the left half of the occipital bone had been
In the surgeon’s deposition it was stated that the posterior third of
weekly county paper, which contained a verbatim account of the inquest.
something to my medical instincts? I rang the bell and called for the
deadly. What could it be? Might not the nature of the injuries reveal
his screams, he rushed into the glade? It was something terrible and
time when he parted from his father, and the moment when, drawn back by
unforeseen and extraordinary calamity could have occurred between the
were absolutely true, then what hellish thing, what absolutely
the events of the day. Supposing that this unhappy young man’s story
it across the room and gave myself up entirely to a consideration of
wander so continually from the action to the fact, that I at last flung
deep mystery through which we were groping, and I found my attention
The puny plot of the story was so thin, however, when compared to the
upon the sofa and tried to interest myself in a yellow-backed novel.
streets of the little town, finally returning to the hotel, where I lay
I walked down to the station with them, and then wandered through the

I shall only be away a couple of hours.”
“Then let us do so. Watson, I fear that you will find it very slow, but

“Ample.”

time to take a train to Hereford and see him to-night?”
“Then I shall reconsider my resolution about going out. We have still

“Yes, but only for you and me.”

“Have you an order to see him in prison?”
“I think that I see my way to clearing James McCarthy,” said Holmes.

disappoint? I am not over-tender of heart, but I call it cruel.”
minutes’ silence. “Why should you raise up hopes which you are bound to
“I am ashamed of you, Holmes,” said Lestrade with dignity after a few

wheels of her carriage rattle off down the street.
from the room as impulsively as she had entered, and we heard the
leave him. Good-bye, and God help you in your undertaking.” She hurried
“I must go home now, for dad is very ill, and he misses me so if I

“I will, Miss Turner.”

I know him to be innocent.”
to the prison to see James. Oh, if you do, Mr. Holmes, do tell him that
“You will tell me if you have any news to-morrow. No doubt you will go

“Thank you, Miss Turner. You have been of material assistance to me.”

“Yes, certainly.”

his money.”
“Quite so; at the gold-mines, where, as I understand, Mr. Turner made

“Yes, at the mines.”

“Ha! In Victoria! That is important.”

old days in Victoria.”
shattered. Mr. McCarthy was the only man alive who had known dad in the
and Dr. Willows says that he is a wreck and that his nervous system is
back, but this has broken him down completely. He has taken to his bed,
“Yes, have you not heard? Poor father has never been strong for years

“The doctor?”

“I am afraid the doctor won’t allow it.”

call to-morrow?”
“Thank you for this information,” said he. “May I see your father if I

of his keen, questioning glances at her.
it.” A quick blush passed over her fresh young face as Holmes shot one
“No, he was averse to it also. No one but Mr. McCarthy was in favour of

“And your father?” asked Holmes. “Was he in favour of such a union?”

them.”
like that yet. So there were quarrels, and this, I am sure, was one of
of life yet, and—and—well, he naturally did not wish to do anything
brother and sister; but of course he is young and has seen very little
be a marriage between us. James and I have always loved each other as
disagreements about me. Mr. McCarthy was very anxious that there should
“It is no time for me to hide anything. James and his father had many

“In what way?” asked Holmes.

it.”
would not speak about it to the coroner was because I was concerned in
about his quarrel with his father, I am sure that the reason why he
“But he is right. Oh! I know that he is right. James never did it. And

been a little quick in forming his conclusions,” he said.
Lestrade shrugged his shoulders. “I am afraid that my colleague has

at Lestrade. “You hear! He gives me hopes.”
“There, now!” she cried, throwing back her head and looking defiantly

“I think that it is very probable.”

is innocent?”
you not see some loophole, some flaw? Do you not yourself think that he
“But you have read the evidence. You have formed some conclusion? Do

rely upon my doing all that I can.”
“I hope we may clear him, Miss Turner,” said Sherlock Holmes. “You may

hurt a fly. Such a charge is absurd to anyone who really knows him.”
I know his faults as no one else does; but he is too tender-hearted to
that point. We have known each other since we were little children, and
start upon your work knowing it, too. Never let yourself doubt upon
you so. I know that James didn’t do it. I know it, and I want you to
companion, “I am so glad that you have come. I have driven down to tell
us, and finally, with a woman’s quick intuition, fastening upon my
“Oh, Mr. Sherlock Holmes!” she cried, glancing from one to the other of

her natural reserve lost in her overpowering excitement and concern.
shining, her lips parted, a pink flush upon her cheeks, all thought of
lovely young women that I have ever seen in my life. Her violet eyes
He had hardly spoken before there rushed into the room one of the most

already done. Why, bless my soul! here is her carriage at the door.”
told her that there was nothing which you could do which I had not
She has heard of you, and would have your opinion, though I repeatedly
of course, one can’t refuse a lady, and such a very positive one, too.
pikestaff, and the more one goes into it the plainer it becomes. Still,
conclusions from the newspapers,” he said. “The case is as plain as a
Lestrade laughed indulgently. “You have, no doubt, already formed your

not think that it is probable that I shall use the carriage to-night.”
sofa is very much superior to the usual country hotel abomination. I do
sky. I have a caseful of cigarettes here which need smoking, and the
“How is the glass? Twenty-nine, I see. No wind, and not a cloud in the

Lestrade looked startled. “I do not quite follow,” he said.

entirely a question of barometric pressure.”
“It was very nice and complimentary of you,” Holmes answered. “It is

you had been on the scene of the crime.”
“I knew your energetic nature, and that you would not be happy until
“I have ordered a carriage,” said Lestrade as we sat over a cup of tea.

to the Hereford Arms where a room had already been engaged for us.
difficulty in recognising Lestrade, of Scotland Yard. With him we drove
which he wore in deference to his rustic surroundings, I had no
platform. In spite of the light brown dustcoat and leather-leggings
ferret-like man, furtive and sly-looking, was waiting for us upon the
ourselves at the pretty little country-town of Ross. A lean,
beautiful Stroud Valley, and over the broad gleaming Severn, found
It was nearly four o’clock when we at last, after passing through the

minutes.”
action. We lunch at Swindon, and I see that we shall be there in twenty
not another word shall I say of this case until we are on the scene of
that hypothesis will lead us. And now here is my pocket Petrarch, and
view that what this young man says is true, and we shall see whither
vanishing cloth. No, sir, I shall approach this case from the point of
_outré_ as a dying reference to a rat, and the incident of the
much, if he evolved from his own inner consciousness anything so
a cause of quarrel which would give him the sympathy of the jury; too
too much imagination and too little? Too little, if he could not invent
favour. Don’t you see that you alternately give him credit for having
said he, “to single out the very strongest points in the young man’s
cushioned seat. “Both you and the coroner have been at some pains,”
Holmes laughed softly to himself and stretched himself out upon the

the son.”
father’s dying words. They are all, as he remarks, very much against
of his conversation with his father, and his singular account of his
signalled to him before seeing him, also to his refusal to give details
attention, and with reason, to the discrepancy about his father having
concluding remarks was rather severe upon young McCarthy. He calls
“I see,” said I as I glanced down the column, “that the coroner in his

“This concluded the examination of the witness.”

“‘Yes, but with my back towards it.’

it?’
“‘Then if it was removed it was while you were within a dozen yards of

“‘About the same.’

“‘And how far from the edge of the wood?’

“‘A dozen yards or so.’

“‘How far from the body?’

“‘No, I had a feeling something was there.’

“  ‘You cannot say what it was?’

“‘Yes, it was gone.’

“‘Do you mean that it disappeared before you went for help?’

round for it, but it was gone.
some sort, or a plaid perhaps. When I rose from my father I looked
left of me. It seemed to me to be something grey in colour, a coat of
impression that as I ran forward something lay upon the ground to the
that I could think of nothing except of my father. Yet I have a vague
“Witness: I was so disturbed and excited as I rushed out into the open,

“The Coroner: What do you mean?

“Witness: Nothing definite.

returned on hearing the cry and found your father fatally injured?
“A Juryman: Did you see nothing which aroused your suspicions when you

“Witness (with considerable confusion): I do not know.

and before he even knew that you had returned from Bristol?
“The Coroner: How was it, then, that he uttered it before he saw you,

“Witness: It was.

between you and your father?
“The Coroner: I understand that the cry of ‘Cooee’ was a common signal

“Witness: I must still refuse.

in any future proceedings which may arise.
you that your refusal to answer will prejudice your case considerably
“The Coroner: That is for the court to decide. I need not point out to

that it has nothing to do with the sad tragedy which followed.
“Witness: It is really impossible for me to tell you. I can assure you

“The Coroner: I am afraid that I must press it.

“Witness: I should prefer not to answer.

this final quarrel?
“The Coroner: What was the point upon which you and your father had

delirious.
“Witness: It conveyed no meaning to me. I thought that he was

“The Coroner: What did you understand by that?

to a rat.
“Witness: He mumbled a few words, but I could only catch some allusion

“The Coroner: Did your father make any statement to you before he died?

as I know, no active enemies. I know nothing further of the matter.’
being somewhat cold and forbidding in his manners, but he had, as far
have no idea how he came by his injuries. He was not a popular man,
ask for assistance. I saw no one near my father when I returned, and I
my way to Mr. Turner’s lodge-keeper, his house being the nearest, to
instantly expired. I knelt beside him for some minutes, and then made
injured. I dropped my gun and held him in my arms, but he almost
found my father expiring upon the ground, with his head terribly
heard a hideous outcry behind me, which caused me to run back again. I
Hatherley Farm. I had not gone more than 150 yards, however, when I
his passion was becoming ungovernable, I left him and returned towards
to blows, for my father was a man of a very violent temper. Seeing that
doing there. A conversation ensued which led to high words and almost
much surprised at seeing me and asked me rather roughly what I was
hurried forward, and found him standing by the pool. He appeared to be
“Cooee!” which was a usual signal between my father and myself. I then
front of me. When about a hundred yards from the pool I heard a cry of
thinking that I was following my father. I had no idea that he was in
game-keeper, as he had stated in his evidence; but he is mistaken in
is upon the other side. On my way I saw William Crowder, the
Boscombe Pool, with the intention of visiting the rabbit warren which
was going. I then took my gun and strolled out in the direction of the
rapidly out of the yard, though I was not aware in which direction he
in the yard, and, looking out of my window, I saw him get out and walk
Cobb, the groom. Shortly after my return I heard the wheels of his trap
I was informed by the maid that he had driven over to Ross with John
the 3rd. My father was absent from home at the time of my arrival, and
Bristol, and had only just returned upon the morning of last Monday,
gave evidence as follows: ‘I had been away from home for three days at
“Mr. James McCarthy, the only son of the deceased, was then called and

it very carefully. It ran in this way:
occurred. I settled myself down in the corner of the carriage and read
the unfortunate young man had given his own statement of what had
and having turned down the sheet he pointed out the paragraph in which
He picked out from his bundle a copy of the local Herefordshire paper,

it here, and may read it for yourself.”
there are one or two points in it which are suggestive. You will find
“It is, I am afraid, not very encouraging to his supporters, though

“What is the young man’s own account of the matter?”

“So they have. And many men have been wrongfully hanged.”

I remarked.
I shook my head. “Many men have been hanged on far slighter evidence,”

mind rather than of a guilty one.”
are displayed in his remark appear to me to be the signs of a healthy
his hand as if to strike him. The self-reproach and contrition which
according to the little girl whose evidence is so important, to raise
forgotten his filial duty as to bandy words with him, and even,
father, and that there is no doubt that he had that very day so far
unnatural if you consider that he stood beside the dead body of his
and firmness. As to his remark about his deserts, it was also not
either an innocent man, or else as a man of considerable self-restraint
a scheming man. His frank acceptance of the situation marks him as
under the circumstances, and yet might appear to be the best policy to
highly suspicious, because such surprise or anger would not be natural
arrest, or feigned indignation at it, I should have looked upon it as
were very black against him. Had he appeared surprised at his own
not be such an absolute imbecile as not to see that the circumstances
at present see in the clouds. However innocent he might be, he could
“On the contrary,” said Holmes, “it is the brightest rift which I can

a most suspicious remark.”
“Coming on the top of such a damning series of events, it was at least

“No, for it was followed by a protestation of innocence.”

“It was a confession,” I ejaculated.

have remained in the minds of the coroner’s jury.”
his had the natural effect of removing any traces of doubt which might
hear it, and that it was no more than his deserts. This observation of
him that he was a prisoner, he remarked that he was not surprised to
return to Hatherley Farm. On the inspector of constabulary informing
“It appears that his arrest did not take place at once, but after the

“What are they?”

the inquest, and which are worth considering.”
before us. There are one or two minor points which were brought out in
possible that it may be of some service in the investigation which lies
observation and inference. Therein lies my _métier_, and it is just
satisfied with such a result. I only quote this as a trivial example of
a man of your habits looking at himself in an equal light and being
that that side is less illuminated than the other. I could not imagine
slovenly as we get round the angle of the jaw, it is surely very clear
as we get farther back on the left side, until it becomes positively
shave by the sunlight; but since your shaving is less and less complete
characterises you. You shave every morning, and in this season you
“My dear fellow, I know you well. I know the military neatness which

“How on earth—”

noted even so self-evident a thing as that.”
right-hand side, and yet I question whether Mr. Lestrade would have
I very clearly perceive that in your bedroom the window is upon the
employing, or even of understanding. To take the first example to hand,
confirm or destroy his theory by means which he is quite incapable of
too well to think that I am boasting when I say that I shall either
which may have been by no means obvious to Mr. Lestrade. You know me
laughing. “Besides, we may chance to hit upon some other obvious facts
“There is nothing more deceptive than an obvious fact,” he answered,

find little credit to be gained out of this case.”
“I am afraid,” said I, “that the facts are so obvious that you will

breakfasts at home.”
westward at fifty miles an hour instead of quietly digesting their
to me, and hence it is that two middle-aged gentlemen are flying
in his interest. Lestrade, being rather puzzled, has referred the case
recollect in connection with the Study in Scarlet, to work out the case
believe in his innocence, and who have retained Lestrade, whom you may
among them Miss Turner, the daughter of the neighbouring landowner, who
culprit. There are several people in the neighbourhood, however, and
against the young man, and it is very possible that he is indeed the
must be confessed, however, that the case looks exceedingly grave
an equally uncompromising manner to something entirely different. It
you shift your own point of view a little, you may find it pointing in
thoughtfully. “It may seem to point very straight to one thing, but if
“Circumstantial evidence is a very tricky thing,” answered Holmes

circumstantial evidence pointed to a criminal it does so here.”
“I could hardly imagine a more damning case,” I remarked. “If ever

case as they came out before the coroner and the police-court.”
referred the case to the next Assizes. Those are the main facts of the
was on Wednesday brought before the magistrates at Ross, who have
of ‘wilful murder’ having been returned at the inquest on Tuesday, he
these circumstances the young man was instantly arrested, and a verdict
was found lying on the grass within a few paces of the body. Under
very well have been inflicted by the butt-end of his son’s gun, which
blows of some heavy and blunt weapon. The injuries were such as might
upon the grass beside the pool. The head had been beaten in by repeated
fresh blood. On following him they found the dead body stretched out
hat, and his right hand and sleeve were observed to be stained with
of the lodge-keeper. He was much excited, without either his gun or his
that he had found his father dead in the wood, and to ask for the help
the words when young Mr. McCarthy came running up to the lodge to say
that she was afraid that they were going to fight. She had hardly said
that she had left the two McCarthys quarrelling near Boscombe Pool, and
violence that she ran away and told her mother when she reached home
hand as if to strike his father. She was so frightened by their
very strong language to his son, and she saw the latter raise up his
to be having a violent quarrel. She heard Mr. McCarthy the elder using
and close by the lake, Mr. McCarthy and his son, and that they appeared
She states that while she was there she saw, at the border of the wood
the Boscombe Valley estate, was in one of the woods picking flowers.
of fourteen, Patience Moran, who is the daughter of the lodge-keeper of
round, with just a fringe of grass and of reeds round the edge. A girl
game-keeper, lost sight of them. The Boscombe Pool is thickly wooded
“The two McCarthys were seen after the time when William Crowder, the

heard in the evening of the tragedy that had occurred.
the son was following him. He thought no more of the matter until he
best of his belief, the father was actually in sight at the time, and
James McCarthy, going the same way with a gun under his arm. To the
few minutes of his seeing Mr. McCarthy pass he had seen his son, Mr.
that Mr. McCarthy was walking alone. The game-keeper adds that within a
a game-keeper in the employ of Mr. Turner. Both these witnesses depose
woman, whose name is not mentioned, and the other was William Crowder,
and two people saw him as he passed over this ground. One was an old
“From Hatherley Farmhouse to the Boscombe Pool is a quarter of a mile,

From that appointment he never came back alive.
must hurry, as he had an appointment of importance to keep at three.
serving-man in the morning at Ross, and he had told the man that he
which runs down the Boscombe Valley. He had been out with his
Pool, which is a small lake formed by the spreading out of the stream
Hatherley about three in the afternoon and walked down to the Boscombe
“On June 3rd, that is, on Monday last, McCarthy left his house at

families. Now for the facts.
least. That is as much as I have been able to gather about the
and a girl. Turner had a considerable household, some half-dozen at the
race-meetings of the neighbourhood. McCarthy kept two servants—a man
both the McCarthys were fond of sport and were frequently seen at the
neighbouring English families and to have led retired lives, though
had wives living. They appear to have avoided the society of the
and Turner had an only daughter of the same age, but neither of them
they were frequently together. McCarthy had one son, a lad of eighteen,
tenant but still remained, it seems, upon terms of perfect equality, as
possible. Turner was apparently the richer man, so McCarthy became his
when they came to settle down they should do so as near each other as
known each other in the colonies, so that it was not unnatural that
let to Mr. Charles McCarthy, who was also an ex-Australian. The men had
the old country. One of the farms which he held, that of Hatherley, was
Turner, who made his money in Australia and returned some years ago to
Herefordshire. The largest landed proprietor in that part is a Mr. John
“Boscombe Valley is a country district not very far from Ross, in

understand it, in a very few words.
explain the state of things to you, as far as I have been able to
until I have the opportunity of looking personally into it. I will
“Well, it is conjectured to be so. I shall take nothing for granted

“It is a murder, then?”

very serious case against the son of the murdered man.”
is to bring it home. In this case, however, they have established a
The more featureless and commonplace a crime is, the more difficult it
“But it is profoundly true. Singularity is almost invariably a clue.

“That sounds a little paradoxical.”

cases which are so extremely difficult.”
particulars. It seems, from what I gather, to be one of those simple
looking through all the recent papers in order to master the
“The London press has not had very full accounts. I have just been

“Not a word. I have not seen a paper for some days.”

“Have you heard anything of the case?” he asked.

tossed them up onto the rack.
Reading. Then he suddenly rolled them all into a gigantic ball and
with intervals of note-taking and of meditation, until we were past
which Holmes had brought with him. Among these he rummaged and read,
We had the carriage to ourselves save for an immense litter of papers

If you will keep the two corner seats I shall get the tickets.”
thoroughly rely. Local aid is always either worthless or else biassed.
considerable difference to me, having someone with me on whom I can
“It is really very good of you to come, Watson,” said he. “It makes a

taller by his long grey travelling-cloak and close-fitting cloth cap.
up and down the platform, his tall, gaunt figure made even gaunter and
valise, rattling away to Paddington Station. Sherlock Holmes was pacing
simple, so that in less than the time stated I was in a cab with my
of making me a prompt and ready traveller. My wants were few and
My experience of camp life in Afghanistan had at least had the effect

have only half an hour.”
of them,” I answered. “But if I am to go, I must pack at once, for I
“I should be ungrateful if I were not, seeing what I gained through one

are always so interested in Mr. Sherlock Holmes’ cases.”
little pale lately. I think that the change would do you good, and you
“Oh, Anstruther would do your work for you. You have been looking a

present.”
“I really don’t know what to say. I have a fairly long list at

go?”
“What do you say, dear?” said my wife, looking across at me. “Will you

Paddington by the 11:15.”
glad if you will come with me. Air and scenery perfect. Leave
west of England in connection with Boscombe Valley tragedy. Shall be
“Have you a couple of days to spare? Have just been wired for from the

brought in a telegram. It was from Sherlock Holmes and ran in this way:
We were seated at breakfast one morning, my wife and I, when the maid

 IV. THE BOSCOMBE VALLEY MYSTERY



much sense in Hafiz as in Horace, and as much knowledge of the world.”
danger also for whoso snatches a delusion from a woman.’ There is as
Persian saying, ‘There is danger for him who taketh the tiger cub, and
“If I tell her she will not believe me. You may remember the old

“And Miss Sutherland?”

_Voilà tout_!”
tallied in every respect with that of their employé, James Windibank.
Westhouse & Marbank, of Fenchurch Street, to say that the description
characteristic defects. The same post brought me a letter from
his reply was typewritten and revealed the same trivial but
his business address asking him if he would come here. As I expected,
the peculiarities of the typewriter, and I wrote to the man himself at
to the description of any of their travellers. I had already noticed
the firm, with a request that they would inform me whether it answered
of a disguise—the whiskers, the glasses, the voice, and I sent it to
description. I eliminated everything from it which could be the result
the firm for which this man worked. Having taken the printed
“Having once spotted my man, it was easy to get corroboration. I knew

“And how did you verify them?”

all pointed in the same direction.”
it. You see all these isolated facts, together with many minor ones,
familiar to her that she would recognise even the smallest sample of
signature, which, of course, inferred that his handwriting was so
suspicions were all confirmed by his peculiar action in typewriting his
voice, which both hinted at a disguise, as did the bushy whiskers. My
was away, was suggestive. So were the tinted spectacles and the curious
were never together, but that the one always appeared when the other
far as we could see, was the stepfather. Then the fact that the two men
equally clear that the only man who really profited by the incident, as
Angel must have some strong object for his curious conduct, and it was
“Well, of course it was obvious from the first that this Mr. Hosmer

remarked.
“I cannot now entirely see all the steps of your reasoning,” I

The case has, in some respects, been not entirely devoid of interest.”
crime to crime until he does something very bad, and ends on a gallows.
himself down into his chair once more. “That fellow will rise from
“There’s a cold-blooded scoundrel!” said Holmes, laughing, as he threw

road.
could see Mr. James Windibank running at the top of his speed down the
upon the stairs, the heavy hall door banged, and from the window we
whip, but before he could grasp it there was a wild clatter of steps
think I shall just treat myself to—” He took two swift steps to the
part of my duties to my client, but here’s a hunting crop handy, and I
up at the sight of the bitter sneer upon the man’s face, “it is not
to lay a whip across your shoulders. By Jove!” he continued, flushing
punishment more. If the young lady has a brother or a friend, he ought
throwing open the door, “yet there never was a man who deserved
“The law cannot, as you say, touch you,” said Holmes, unlocking and

open to an action for assault and illegal constraint.”
the first, but as long as you keep that door locked you lay yourself
breaking the law now, and not me. I have done nothing actionable from
very sharp you ought to be sharp enough to know that it is you who are
“It may be so, or it may not, Mr. Holmes,” said he, “but if you are so

pale face.
been talking, and he rose from his chair now with a cold sneer upon his
Our visitor had recovered something of his assurance while Holmes had

think that was the chain of events, Mr. Windibank!”
of stepping in at one door of a four-wheeler and out at the other. I
he could go no farther, he conveniently vanished away by the old trick
to another man. As far as the church door he brought her, and then, as
his fate, that for ten years to come, at any rate, she would not listen
Miss Sutherland to be so bound to Hosmer Angel, and so uncertain as to
happening on the very morning of the wedding. James Windibank wished
Testament, and hence also the allusions to a possibility of something
for some time to come. Hence those vows of fidelity exacted upon a
young lady’s mind and prevent her from looking upon any other suitor
dramatic manner that it would leave a permanent impression upon the
thing to do was clearly to bring the business to an end in such a
forever. These pretended journeys to France were rather cumbrous. The
turning towards anyone else. But the deception could not be kept up
engagement, which would finally secure the girl’s affections from
real effect were to be produced. There were meetings, and an
obvious that the matter should be pushed as far as it would go if a
admiration of her mother. Then Mr. Angel began to call, for it was
attentions, and the effect was increased by the loudly expressed
instant entered her mind. She was flattered by the gentleman’s
stepfather was in France, the suspicion of treachery never for an
decidedly carried away, and, having quite made up her mind that her
“Very likely not. However that may be, the young lady was very

that she would have been so carried away.”
“It was only a joke at first,” groaned our visitor. “We never thought

lovers by making love himself.”
girl’s short sight, he appears as Mr. Hosmer Angel, and keeps off other
voice into an insinuating whisper, and doubly secure on account of the
the face with a moustache and a pair of bushy whiskers, sunk that clear
disguised himself, covered those keen eyes with tinted glasses, masked
than to his heart. With the connivance and assistance of his wife he
stepfather do then? He conceives an idea more creditable to his head
positive intention of going to a certain ball. What does her clever
became restive, insisted upon her rights, and finally announced her
her own age. But soon he found that that would not answer forever. She
keeping her at home and forbidding her to seek the company of people of
does her stepfather do to prevent it? He takes the obvious course of
marriage would mean, of course, the loss of a hundred a year, so what
income, she would not be allowed to remain single long. Now her
was evident that with her fair personal advantages, and her little
disposition, but affectionate and warm-hearted in her ways, so that it
was worth an effort to preserve it. The daughter was of a good, amiable
position, and the loss of it would have made a serious difference. It
as she lived with them. It was a considerable sum, for people in their
said he, “and he enjoyed the use of the money of the daughter as long
“The man married a woman very much older than himself for her money,”

pockets, began talking, rather to himself, as it seemed, than to us.
the corner of the mantelpiece and, leaning back with his hands in his
breast, like one who is utterly crushed. Holmes stuck his feet up on
The man sat huddled up in his chair, with his head sunk upon his

events, and you will contradict me if I go wrong.”
way as ever came before me. Now, let me just run over the course of
Windibank, it was as cruel and selfish and heartless a trick in a petty
“I am very much afraid that it is not. But between ourselves,

of moisture on his brow. “It—it’s not actionable,” he stammered.
Our visitor collapsed into a chair, with a ghastly face and a glitter

talk it over.”
for me to solve so simple a question. That’s right! Sit down and let us
and it was a very bad compliment when you said that it was impossible
possible getting out of it, Mr. Windibank. It is quite too transparent,
“Oh, it won’t do—really it won’t,” said Holmes suavely. “There is no

glancing about him like a rat in a trap.
“What! where?” shouted Mr. Windibank, turning white to his lips and

door. “I let you know, then, that I have caught him!”
“Certainly,” said Holmes, stepping over and turning the key in the

it.”
you can catch the man, catch him, and let me know when you have done
waste time over this sort of fantastic talk, Mr. Holmes,” he said. “If
Mr. Windibank sprang out of his chair and picked up his hat. “I cannot

have alluded are there as well.”
magnifying lens, that the fourteen other characteristics to which I
the ‘r’s’ tailless, but you will observe, if you care to use my
are all typewritten. In each case, not only are the ‘e’s’ slurred and
have here four letters which purport to come from the missing man. They
crime. It is a subject to which I have devoted some little attention. I
monograph some of these days on the typewriter and its relation to
Windibank,” Holmes continued. “I think of writing another little
“And now I will show you what is really a very interesting study, Mr.

Holmes with his bright little eyes.
doubt it is a little worn,” our visitor answered, glancing keenly at
“We do all our correspondence with this machine at the office, and no

obvious.”
‘r.’ There are fourteen other characteristics, but those are the more
little slurring over of the ‘e,’ and a slight defect in the tail of the
this note of yours, Mr. Windibank, that in every case there is some
worn than others, and some wear only on one side. Now, you remark in
quite new, no two of them write exactly alike. Some letters get more
quite as much individuality as a man’s handwriting. Unless they are
“It is a curious thing,” remarked Holmes, “that a typewriter has really

delighted to hear it,” he said.
Mr. Windibank gave a violent start and dropped his gloves. “I am

that I will succeed in discovering Mr. Hosmer Angel.”
“On the contrary,” said Holmes quietly; “I have every reason to believe

expense, for how could you possibly find this Hosmer Angel?”
family misfortune like this noised abroad. Besides, it is a useless
connected with the official police, but it is not pleasant to have a
on a point. Of course, I did not mind you so much, as you are not
noticed, and she is not easily controlled when she has made up her mind
came, but she is a very excitable, impulsive girl, as you may have
linen of the sort in public. It was quite against my wishes that she
about this little matter, for I think it is far better not to wash
own master, you know. I am sorry that Miss Sutherland has troubled you
“Yes, sir. I am afraid that I am a little late, but I am not quite my

me for six o’clock?”
typewritten letter is from you, in which you made an appointment with
“Good-evening, Mr. James Windibank,” said Holmes. “I think that this

nearest chair.
top-hat upon the sideboard, and with a slight bow sidled down into the
grey eyes. He shot a questioning glance at each of us, placed his shiny
insinuating manner, and a pair of wonderfully sharp and penetrating
years of age, clean-shaven, and sallow-skinned, with a bland,
The man who entered was a sturdy, middle-sized fellow, some thirty

has written to me to say that he would be here at six. Come in!”
“This is the girl’s stepfather, Mr. James Windibank,” said Holmes. “He

tap at the door.
his lips to reply, when we heard a heavy footfall in the passage and a
The question was hardly out of my mouth, and Holmes had not yet opened

Sutherland?”
“Who was he, then, and what was his object in deserting Miss

law, I fear, that can touch the scoundrel.”
of the details are of interest. The only drawback is that there is no
was never any mystery in the matter, though, as I said yesterday, some
“Oh, that! I thought of the salt that I have been working upon. There

“No, no, the mystery!” I cried.

“Yes. It was the bisulphate of baryta.”

“Well, have you solved it?” I asked as I entered.

his day in the chemical work which was so dear to him.
pungent cleanly smell of hydrochloric acid, told me that he had spent
armchair. A formidable array of bottles and test-tubes, with the
asleep, with his long, thin form curled up in the recesses of his
the little mystery. I found Sherlock Holmes alone, however, half
half afraid that I might be too late to assist at the _dénouement_ of
free and was able to spring into a hansom and drive to Baker Street,
sufferer. It was not until close upon six o’clock that I found myself
the time, and the whole of next day I was busy at the bedside of the
A professional case of great gravity was engaging my own attention at

of the disappearing bridegroom of Miss Mary Sutherland.
he held in his hands all the clues which would lead up to the identity
conviction that when I came again on the next evening I would find that
I left him then, still puffing at his black clay pipe, with the

be a strange tangle indeed which he could not unravel.
circumstances connected with the Study in Scarlet, I felt that it would
the weird business of the Sign of Four, and the extraordinary
Bohemia and of the Irene Adler photograph; but when I looked back to
fathom. Once only had I known him to fail, in the case of the King of
he treated the singular mystery which he had been called upon to
have some solid grounds for the assured and easy demeanour with which
reasoning and extraordinary energy in action that I felt that he must
I had had so many reasons to believe in my friend’s subtle powers of

little problem upon the shelf for the interim.”
do nothing until the answers to those letters come, so we may put our
we should do business with the male relatives. And now, Doctor, we can
meet us here at six o’clock to-morrow evening. It is just as well that
the young lady’s stepfather, Mr. Windibank, asking him whether he could
should settle the matter. One is to a firm in the City, the other is to
“No, that was not the point. However, I shall write two letters, which

deny his signature if an action for breach of promise were instituted.”
“I cannot say that I do unless it were that he wished to be able to

upon the case?”
“My dear fellow, is it possible you do not see how strongly it bears

“Of what?”

conclusive.”
point about the signature is very suggestive—in fact, we may call it
superscription except Leadenhall Street, which is rather vague. The
little ‘Hosmer Angel’ at the bottom. There is a date, you see, but no
“Not only that, but the signature is typewritten. Look at the neat

“They are typewritten,” I remarked.

remarkable point, however, which will no doubt strike you.”
them to Mr. Angel, save that he quotes Balzac once. There is one
glancing over them, “they are very commonplace. Absolutely no clue in
“That will do,” said Holmes. “As to the letters,” he continued,

Leadenhall Street. Anybody bringing,” &c, &c.
over elastic-sided boots. Known to have been employed in an office in
gold Albert chain, and grey Harris tweed trousers, with brown gaiters
when last seen, in black frock-coat faced with silk, black waistcoat,
moustache; tinted glasses, slight infirmity of speech. Was dressed,
hair, a little bald in the centre, bushy, black side-whiskers and
five ft. seven in. in height; strongly built, sallow complexion, black
the morning of the fourteenth, a gentleman named Hosmer Angel. About
I held the little printed slip to the light. “Missing,” it said, “on

mind reading me the advertised description of Mr. Hosmer Angel?”
rather elementary, but I must go back to business, Watson. Would you
would not remain clear upon the finger. All this is amusing, though
dipped her pen too deep. It must have been this morning, or the mark
and finger were stained with violet ink. She had written in a hurry and
torn at the forefinger, but you did not apparently see that both glove
but after being fully dressed. You observed that her right glove was
“I noted, in passing, that she had written a note before leaving home

friend’s incisive reasoning.
“And what else?” I asked, keenly interested, as I always was, by my

hurry.”
half-buttoned, it is no great deduction to say that she came away in a
otherwise neatly dressed, has come away from home with odd boots,
the first, third, and fifth. Now, when you see that a young lady,
buttoned only in the two lower buttons out of five, and the other at
having a slightly decorated toe-cap, and the other a plain one. One was
wearing were not unlike each other, they were really odd ones; the one
on glancing down to observe that, though the boots which she was
“But, surely, it was obvious. I was then much surprised and interested

“It surprised me.”

upon short sight and typewriting, which seemed to surprise her.”
the dint of a pince-nez at either side of her nose, I ventured a remark
broadest part, as this was. I then glanced at her face, and, observing
of it farthest from the thumb, instead of being right across the
type, leaves a similar mark, but only on the left arm, and on the side
the table, was beautifully defined. The sewing-machine, of the hand
line a little above the wrist, where the typewritist presses against
sleeves, which is a most useful material for showing traces. The double
knee of the trouser. As you observe, this woman had plush upon her
at a woman’s sleeve. In a man it is perhaps better first to take the
boy, but concentrate yourself upon details. My first glance is always
have a quick eye for colour. Never trust to general impressions, my
everything of importance, but you have hit upon the method, and you
really done very well indeed. It is true that you have missed
“’Pon my word, Watson, you are coming along wonderfully. You have

Sherlock Holmes clapped his hands softly together and chuckled.

a vulgar, comfortable, easy-going way.”
hanging gold earrings, and a general air of being fairly well-to-do in
the right forefinger. Her boots I didn’t observe. She had small round,
the neck and sleeves. Her gloves were greyish and were worn through at
brown, rather darker than coffee colour, with a little purple plush at
upon it, and a fringe of little black jet ornaments. Her dress was
feather of a brickish red. Her jacket was black, with black beads sewn
“Well, she had a slate-coloured, broad-brimmed straw hat, with a

gather from that woman’s appearance? Describe it.”
or the great issues that may hang from a boot-lace. Now, what did you
realise the importance of sleeves, the suggestiveness of thumb-nails,
and so you missed all that was important. I can never bring you to
“Not invisible but unnoticed, Watson. You did not know where to look,

me,” I remarked.
“You appeared to read a good deal upon her which was quite invisible to

were new to me. But the maiden herself was most instructive.”
year. Old as is the idea, however, there were one or two details which
Andover in ’77, and there was something of the sort at The Hague last
a trite one. You will find parallel cases, if you consult my index, in
more interesting than her little problem, which, by the way, is rather
“Quite an interesting study, that maiden,” he observed. “I found her

spinning up from him, and a look of infinite languor in his face.
it, he leaned back in his chair, with the thick blue cloud-wreaths
and oily clay pipe, which was to him as a counsellor, and, having lit
directed upward to the ceiling. Then he took down from the rack the old
pressed together, his legs stretched out in front of him, and his gaze
Sherlock Holmes sat silent for a few minutes with his fingertips still

with a promise to come again whenever she might be summoned.
She laid her little bundle of papers upon the table and went her way,
noble in the simple faith of our visitor which compelled our respect.
For all the preposterous hat and the vacuous face, there was something

to Hosmer. He shall find me ready when he comes back.”
“You are very kind, Mr. Holmes, but I cannot do that. I shall be true

life.”
the whole incident be a sealed book, and do not allow it to affect your
the papers here, and remember the advice which I have given you. Let
“Thank you. You have made your statement very clearly. You will leave

Fenchurch Street.”
“He travels for Westhouse & Marbank, the great claret importers of

father’s place of business?”
“Mr. Angel’s address you never had, I understand. Where is your

“No. 31 Lyon Place, Camberwell.”

“Thank you. And your address?”

is the slip and here are four letters from him.”
“I advertised for him in last Saturday’s _Chronicle_,” said she. “Here

description of him and any letters of his which you can spare.”
“You will leave that question in my hands. I should like an accurate

“Then what has happened to him?”

“I fear not.”

“Then you don’t think I’ll see him again?”

memory, as he has done from your life.”
further. Above all, try to let Mr. Hosmer Angel vanish from your
of the matter rest upon me now, and do not let your mind dwell upon it
have no doubt that we shall reach some definite result. Let the weight
“I shall glance into the case for you,” said Holmes, rising, “and I

sob heavily into it.
night.” She pulled a little handkerchief out of her muff and began to
Oh, it drives me half-mad to think of it, and I can’t sleep a wink at
mine. And yet, what could have happened? And why could he not write?
very independent about money and never would look at a shilling of
my money settled on him, there might be some reason, but Hosmer was
me? Now, if he had borrowed my money, or if he had married me and got
anyone have in bringing me to the doors of the church, and then leaving
that I should hear of Hosmer again. As he said, what interest could
“Yes; and he seemed to think, with me, that something had happened, and

“And your father? Did you tell him?”

again.”
“She was angry, and said that I was never to speak of the matter

“One more question. How did your mother take the matter?”

“None.”

“But you have no notion as to what it could have been?”

have talked so. And then I think that what he foresaw happened.”
“Yes, sir. I believe that he foresaw some danger, or else he would not

unforeseen catastrophe has occurred to him?”
“Most certainly it does. Your own opinion is, then, that some

wedding-morning, but what has happened since gives a meaning to it.”
claim his pledge sooner or later. It seemed strange talk for a
was always to remember that I was pledged to him, and that he would
and that even if something quite unforeseen occurred to separate us, I
morning he was saying to me that, whatever happened, I was to be true;
“Oh, no, sir! He was too good and kind to leave me so. Why, all the

Holmes.
“It seems to me that you have been very shamefully treated,” said

anything since then to throw any light upon what became of him.”
eyes. That was last Friday, Mr. Holmes, and I have never seen or heard
imagine what had become of him, for he had seen him get in with his own
looked there was no one there! The cabman said that he could not
out, but he never did, and when the cabman got down from the box and
first, and when the four-wheeler drove up we waited for him to step
happened to be the only other cab in the street. We got to the church
put us both into it and stepped himself into a four-wheeler, which
Hotel. Hosmer came for us in a hansom, but as there were two of us he
Cross, and we were to have breakfast afterwards at the St. Pancras
“Yes, sir, but very quietly. It was to be at St. Saviour’s, near King’s

Friday. Was it to be in church?”
“Ha! that was unfortunate. Your wedding was arranged, then, for the

“Yes, sir; for he had started to England just before it arrived.”

“It missed him, then?”

very morning of the wedding.”
company has its French offices, but the letter came back to me on the
to do anything on the sly, so I wrote to father at Bordeaux, where the
his leave, as he was only a few years older than me; but I didn’t want
didn’t quite like that, Mr. Holmes. It seemed funny that I should ask
afterwards, and mother said she would make it all right with him. I
they both said never to mind about father, but just to tell him
talked of marrying within the week, I began to ask about father; but
from the first and was even fonder of him than I was. Then, when they
and that it was a sign of his passion. Mother was all in his favour
always be true to him. Mother said he was quite right to make me swear,
swear, with my hands on the Testament, that whatever happened I would
marry before father came back. He was in dreadful earnest and made me
“Mr. Hosmer Angel came to the house again and proposed that we should

to France?”
“Well, and what happened when Mr. Windibank, your stepfather, returned

glasses against the glare.”
plain, but his eyes were weak, just as mine are, and he wore tinted
whispering fashion of speech. He was always well dressed, very neat and
told me, and it had left him with a weak throat, and a hesitating,
gentle. He’d had the quinsy and swollen glands when he was young, he
conspicuous. Very retiring and gentlemanly he was. Even his voice was
evening than in the daylight, for he said that he hated to be
“He was a very shy man, Mr. Holmes. He would rather walk with me in the

remember any other little things about Mr. Hosmer Angel?”
mine that the little things are infinitely the most important. Can you
“It was most suggestive,” said Holmes. “It has long been an axiom of

things that he would think of.”
will just show you how fond he was of me, Mr. Holmes, and the little
typewritten he always felt that the machine had come between us. That
that when I wrote them they seemed to come from me, but when they were
typewrite them, like he did his, but he wouldn’t have that, for he said
the other clerks about having letters from a lady, so I offered to
said that if they were sent to the office he would be chaffed by all
“To the Leadenhall Street Post Office, to be left till called for. He

“Where did you address your letters, then?”

“No—except that it was Leadenhall Street.”

“And you don’t know his address?”

“He slept on the premises.”

“Where did he live, then?”

“That’s the worst of it, Mr. Holmes, I don’t know.”

“What office?”

Street—and—”
took. Hosmer—Mr. Angel—was a cashier in an office in Leadenhall
“Oh, yes, Mr. Holmes. We were engaged after the first walk that we

“Were you engaged to the gentleman at this time?”

father to know.”
day. I took the letters in in the morning, so there was no need for
he had gone. We could write in the meantime, and he used to write every
and said that it would be safer and better not to see each other until
“Well, father was going off to France again in a week, and Hosmer wrote

“But how about Mr. Hosmer Angel? Did he make no attempt to see you?”

mine yet.”
mother, a woman wants her own circle to begin with, and I had not got
should be happy in her own family circle. But then, as I used to say to
have any visitors if he could help it, and he used to say that a woman
“Well, you know father didn’t like anything of the sort. He wouldn’t

“No?”

again, and Mr. Hosmer Angel could not come to the house any more.”
Holmes, I met him twice for walks, but after that father came back
had got home all safe, and after that we met him—that is to say, Mr.
“Yes, sir. I met him that night, and he called next day to ask if we

gentleman called Mr. Hosmer Angel.”
“I see. Then at the gasfitters’ ball you met, as I understand, a

woman, for she would have her way.”
shrugged his shoulders, and said there was no use denying anything to a
“Oh, well, he was very good about it. He laughed, I remember, and

France he was very annoyed at your having gone to the ball.”
“I suppose,” said Holmes, “that when Mr. Windibank came back from

Hosmer Angel.”
Mr. Hardy, who used to be our foreman, and it was there I met Mr.
France upon the business of the firm, but we went, mother and I, with
out of the drawer. At last, when nothing else would do, he went off to
to wear, when I had my purple plush that I had never so much as taken
father’s friends were to be there. And he said that I had nothing fit
prevent? He said the folk were not fit for us to know, when all
this time I was set on going, and I would go; for what right had he to
get quite mad if I wanted so much as to join a Sunday-school treat. But
did not wish us to go. He never did wish us to go anywhere. He would
afterwards they remembered us, and sent them to mother. Mr. Windibank
she said. “They used to send father tickets when he was alive, and then
the fringe of her jacket. “I met him first at the gasfitters’ ball,”
A flush stole over Miss Sutherland’s face, and she picked nervously at

Angel.”
myself. Kindly tell us now all about your connection with Mr. Hosmer
my friend, Dr. Watson, before whom you can speak as freely as before
“You have made your position very clear to me,” said Holmes. “This is

sheet, and I can often do from fifteen to twenty sheets in a day.”
pretty well with what I earn at typewriting. It brings me twopence a
every quarter and pays it over to mother, and I find that I can do
course, that is only just for the time. Mr. Windibank draws my interest
so they have the use of the money just while I am staying with them. Of
that as long as I live at home I don’t wish to be a burden to them, and
“I could do with much less than that, Mr. Holmes, but you understand

a single lady can get on very nicely upon an income of about £ 60.”
doubt travel a little and indulge yourself in every way. I believe that
a sum as a hundred a year, with what you earn into the bargain, you no
“You interest me extremely,” said Holmes. “And since you draw so large

five hundred pounds was the amount, but I can only touch the interest.”
Auckland. It is in New Zealand stock, paying 4½ per cent. Two thousand
“Oh, no, sir. It is quite separate and was left me by my uncle Ned in

“Your own little income,” he asked, “does it come out of the business?”

the greatest concentration of attention.
inconsequential narrative, but, on the contrary, he had listened with
I had expected to see Sherlock Holmes impatient under this rambling and

alive.”
which wasn’t near as much as father could have got if he had been
traveller in wines. They got £ 4700 for the goodwill and interest,
came he made her sell the business, for he was very superior, being a
mother carried on with Mr. Hardy, the foreman; but when Mr. Windibank
Tottenham Court Road, and he left a tidy business behind him, which
nearly fifteen years younger than herself. Father was a plumber in the
when she married again so soon after father’s death, and a man who was
“Oh, yes, mother is alive and well. I wasn’t best pleased, Mr. Holmes,

“And your mother is alive?”

for he is only five years and two months older than myself.”
“Yes, my stepfather. I call him father, though it sounds funny, too,

different.”
“Your father,” said Holmes, “your stepfather, surely, since the name is

and came right away to you.”
there was no harm done, it made me mad, and I just on with my things
to you, and so at last, as he would do nothing and kept on saying that
father—took it all. He would not go to the police, and he would not go
me angry to see the easy way in which Mr. Windibank—that is, my
Sutherland. “Yes, I did bang out of the house,” she said, “for it made
Again a startled look came over the somewhat vacuous face of Miss Mary

Holmes, with his finger-tips together and his eyes to the ceiling.
“Why did you come away to consult me in such a hurry?” asked Sherlock

has become of Mr. Hosmer Angel.”
little that I make by the machine, and I would give it all to know what
rich, but still I have a hundred a year in my own right, besides the
for dead. Oh, Mr. Holmes, I wish you would do as much for me. I’m not
husband you found so easy when the police and everyone had given him up
“I came to you, sir, because I heard of you from Mrs. Etherege, whose

should you come to consult me?”
Perhaps I have trained myself to see what others overlook. If not, why
“Never mind,” said Holmes, laughing; “it is my business to know things.

me, Mr. Holmes,” she cried, “else how could you know all that?”
astonishment upon her broad, good-humoured face. “You’ve heard about
words, she gave a violent start and looked up, with fear and
without looking.” Then, suddenly realising the full purport of his
“I did at first,” she answered, “but now I know where the letters are

trying to do so much typewriting?”
“Do you not find,” he said, “that with your short sight it is a little

fashion which was peculiar to him.
an armchair, he looked her over in the minute and yet abstracted
which he was remarkable, and, having closed the door and bowed her into
pilot boat. Sherlock Holmes welcomed her with the easy courtesy for
his small black figure like a full-sailed merchant-man behind a tiny
to announce Miss Mary Sutherland, while the lady herself loomed behind
As he spoke there was a tap at the door, and the boy in buttons entered

resolve our doubts.”
much angry as perplexed, or grieved. But here she comes in person to
may take it that there is a love matter, but that the maiden is not so
longer oscillates, and the usual symptom is a broken bell wire. Here we
discriminate. When a woman has been seriously wronged by a man she no
matter is not too delicate for communication. And yet even here we may
_affaire de cœur_. She would like advice, but is not sure that the
cigarette into the fire. “Oscillation upon the pavement always means an
“I have seen those symptoms before,” said Holmes, throwing his

the bell.
the bank, she hurried across the road, and we heard the sharp clang of
glove buttons. Suddenly, with a plunge, as of the swimmer who leaves
body oscillated backward and forward, and her fingers fidgeted with her
peeped up in a nervous, hesitating fashion at our windows, while her
of Devonshire fashion over her ear. From under this great panoply she
feather in a broad-brimmed hat which was tilted in a coquettish Duchess
woman with a heavy fur boa round her neck, and a large curling red
his shoulder, I saw that on the pavement opposite there stood a large
gazing down into the dull neutral-tinted London street. Looking over
He had risen from his chair and was standing between the parted blinds

is one of my clients, or I am much mistaken.”
I may have something better before very many minutes are over, for this
which presents any features of interest. It is possible, however, that
matter which has been referred to me from Marseilles, there is nothing
rule, is the motive. In these cases, save for one rather intricate
apt to be the simpler, for the bigger the crime the more obvious, as a
effect which gives the charm to an investigation. The larger crimes are
field for the observation, and for the quick analysis of cause and
I have found that it is usually in unimportant matters that there is a
They are important, you understand, without being interesting. Indeed,
“Some ten or twelve, but none which present any feature of interest.

“And have you any on hand just now?” I asked with interest.

problems.”
you, who have been good enough to chronicle one or two of my little
I served them was of such delicacy that I cannot confide it even to
“It was from the reigning family of Holland, though the matter in which

sparkled upon his finger.
“And the ring?” I asked, glancing at a remarkable brilliant which

in the case of the Irene Adler papers.”
a little souvenir from the King of Bohemia in return for my assistance
“Ah,” said he, “I forgot that I had not seen you for some weeks. It is

ways and simple life that I could not help commenting upon it.
centre of the lid. Its splendour was in such contrast to his homely
He held out his snuffbox of old gold, with a great amethyst in the

that I have scored over you in your example.”
average story-teller. Take a pinch of snuff, Doctor, and acknowledge
allow, is not an action likely to occur to the imagination of the
out his false teeth and hurling them at his wife, which, you will
that he had drifted into the habit of winding up every meal by taking
teetotaler, there was no other woman, and the conduct complained of was
up some small points in connection with it. The husband was a
Dundas separation case, and, as it happens, I was engaged in clearing
Holmes, taking the paper and glancing his eye down it. “This is the
“Indeed, your example is an unfortunate one for your argument,” said

could invent nothing more crude.”
bruise, the sympathetic sister or landlady. The crudest of writers
is, of course, the other woman, the drink, the push, the blow, the
know without reading it that it is all perfectly familiar to me. There
husband’s cruelty to his wife.’ There is half a column of print, but I
practical test. Here is the first heading upon which I come. ‘A
here”—I picked up the morning paper from the ground—“let us put it to a
you are brought in contact with all that is strange and bizarre. But
to everybody who is absolutely puzzled, throughout three continents,
I said. “Of course, in your position of unofficial adviser and helper
I smiled and shook my head. “I can quite understand your thinking so,”

unnatural as the commonplace.”
vital essence of the whole matter. Depend upon it, there is nothing so
magistrate than upon the details, which to an observer contain the
report, where more stress is laid, perhaps, upon the platitudes of the
realistic effect,” remarked Holmes. “This is wanting in the police
“A certain selection and discretion must be used in producing a

artistic.”
yet the result is, it must be confessed, neither fascinating nor
We have in our police reports realism pushed to its extreme limits, and
to light in the papers are, as a rule, bald enough, and vulgar enough.
“And yet I am not convinced of it,” I answered. “The cases which come

and unprofitable.”
fiction with its conventionalities and foreseen conclusions most stale
generations, and leading to the most _outré_ results, it would make all
cross-purposes, the wonderful chains of events, working through
are going on, the strange coincidences, the plannings, the
city, gently remove the roofs, and peep in at the queer things which
we could fly out of that window hand in hand, hover over this great
conceive the things which are really mere commonplaces of existence. If
anything which the mind of man could invent. We would not dare to
fire in his lodgings at Baker Street, “life is infinitely stranger than
“My dear fellow,” said Sherlock Holmes as we sat on either side of the

III. A CASE OF IDENTITY



as Gustave Flaubert wrote to George Sand.”
little use,” he remarked. “‘_L’homme c’est rien—l’œuvre c’est tout_,’
He shrugged his shoulders. “Well, perhaps, after all, it is of some

“And you are a benefactor of the race,” said I.

so.”
from the commonplaces of existence. These little problems help me to do
it closing in upon me. My life is spent in one long effort to escape
“It saved me from ennui,” he answered, yawning. “Alas! I already feel

“It is so long a chain, and yet every link rings true.”
“You reasoned it out beautifully,” I exclaimed in unfeigned admiration.

expected them to come to-night.”
would give them two days for their escape. For all these reasons I
removed. Saturday would suit them better than any other day, as it
use it soon, as it might be discovered, or the bullion might be
they had completed their tunnel. But it was essential that they should
cared no longer about Mr. Jabez Wilson’s presence—in other words, that
“Well, when they closed their League offices that was a sign that they

asked.
“And how could you tell that they would make their attempt to-night?” I

chairman of the bank directors, with the result that you have seen.”
drove home after the concert I called upon Scotland Yard and upon the
friend’s premises, and felt that I had solved my problem. When you
walked round the corner, saw the City and Suburban Bank abutted on our
burrowing. The only remaining point was what they were burrowing for. I
wrinkled, and stained they were. They spoke of those hours of
what I wished to see. You must yourself have remarked how worn,
upon each other before. I hardly looked at his face. His knees were
answered it. We have had some skirmishes, but we had never set eyes
was not in front. Then I rang the bell, and, as I hoped, the assistant
ascertaining whether the cellar stretched out in front or behind. It
surprised you by beating upon the pavement with my stick. I was
“So far I had got when we went to visit the scene of action. I

running a tunnel to some other building.
could it be, once more? I could think of nothing save that he was
cellar—something which took many hours a day for months on end. What
daring criminals in London. He was doing something in the
assistant and found that I had to deal with one of the coolest and most
of this tangled clue. Then I made inquiries as to this mysterious
his trick of vanishing into the cellar. The cellar! There was the end
could it be? I thought of the assistant’s fondness for photography, and
as they were at. It must, then, be something out of the house. What
could account for such elaborate preparations, and such an expenditure
business was a small one, and there was nothing in his house which
vulgar intrigue. That, however, was out of the question. The man’s
“Had there been women in the house, I should have suspected a mere

“But how could you guess what the motive was?”

that he had some strong motive for securing the situation.”
heard of the assistant having come for half wages, it was obvious to me
secure his absence every morning in the week. From the time that I
rogue incites the man to apply for it, and together they manage to
put in the advertisement, one rogue has the temporary office, the other
draw him, and what was it to them, who were playing for thousands? They
colour of his accomplice’s hair. The £ 4 a week was a lure which must
The method was no doubt suggested to Clay’s ingenious mind by the
managing it, but, really, it would be difficult to suggest a better.
out of the way for a number of hours every day. It was a curious way of
of the _Encyclopædia_, must be to get this not over-bright pawnbroker
fantastic business of the advertisement of the League, and the copying
obvious from the first that the only possible object of this rather
sat over a glass of whisky and soda in Baker Street, “it was perfectly
“You see, Watson,” he explained in the early hours of the morning as we

and by hearing the very remarkable narrative of the Red-headed League.”
amply repaid by having had an experience which is in many ways unique,
matter, which I shall expect the bank to refund, but beyond that I am
Clay,” said Holmes. “I have been at some small expense over this
“I have had one or two little scores of my own to settle with Mr. John

that have ever come within my experience.”
complete manner one of the most determined attempts at bank robbery
There is no doubt that you have detected and defeated in the most
the cellar, “I do not know how the bank can thank you or repay you.
“Really, Mr. Holmes,” said Mr. Merryweather as we followed them from

the three of us and walked quietly off in the custody of the detective.
“That is better,” said John Clay serenely. He made a sweeping bow to

Highness to the police-station?”
please, sir, march upstairs, where we can get a cab to carry your
“All right,” said Jones with a stare and a snigger. “Well, would you

when you address me always to say ‘sir’ and ‘please.’”
aware that I have royal blood in my veins. Have the goodness, also,
prisoner as the handcuffs clattered upon his wrists. “You may not be
“I beg that you will not touch me with your filthy hands,” remarked our

climbing down holes than I am. Just hold out while I fix the derbies.”
“You’ll see your pal again presently,” said Jones. “He’s quicker at

effective.”
“And I you,” Holmes answered. “Your red-headed idea was very new and

compliment you.”
“Oh, indeed! You seem to have done the thing very completely. I must

“There are three men waiting for him at the door,” said Holmes.

my pal is all right, though I see you have got his coat-tails.”
“So I see,” the other answered with the utmost coolness. “I fancy that

all.”
“It’s no use, John Clay,” said Holmes blandly. “You have no chance at

the pistol clinked upon the stone floor.
revolver, but Holmes’ hunting crop came down on the man’s wrist, and
as Jones clutched at his skirts. The light flashed upon the barrel of a
The other dived down the hole, and I heard the sound of rending cloth
Sherlock Holmes had sprung out and seized the intruder by the collar.

Great Scott! Jump, Archie, jump, and I’ll swing for it!”
“It’s all clear,” he whispered. “Have you the chisel and the bags?

himself, with a pale face and a shock of very red hair.
hole and was hauling after him a companion, lithe and small like
rested upon the edge. In another instant he stood at the side of the
aperture, drew itself shoulder-high and waist-high, until one knee
looked keenly about it, and then, with a hand on either side of the
lantern. Over the edge there peeped a clean-cut, boyish face, which
left a square, gaping hole, through which streamed the light of a
sound, one of the broad, white stones turned over upon its side and
Its disappearance, however, was but momentary. With a rending, tearing

marked a chink between the stones.
appeared, and all was dark again save the single lurid spark which
protruded out of the floor. Then it was withdrawn as suddenly as it
of light. For a minute or more the hand, with its writhing fingers,
almost womanly hand, which felt about in the centre of the little area
warning or sound, a gash seemed to open and a hand appeared, a white,
lengthened out until it became a yellow line, and then, without any
At first it was but a lurid spark upon the stone pavement. Then it

the glint of a light.
over the case in the direction of the floor. Suddenly my eyes caught
thin, sighing note of the bank director. From my position I could look
distinguish the deeper, heavier in-breath of the bulky Jones from the
could not only hear the gentle breathing of my companions, but I could
to the highest pitch of tension, and my hearing was so acute that I
stiff, for I feared to change my position; yet my nerves were worked up
almost gone, and the dawn be breaking above us. My limbs were weary and
hour and a quarter, yet it appeared to me that the night must have
What a time it seemed! From comparing notes afterwards it was but an

wait.”
“Then we have stopped all the holes. And now we must be silent and

“I have an inspector and two officers waiting at the front door.”

asked you, Jones?”
the house into Saxe-Coburg Square. I hope that you have done what I
“They have but one retreat,” whispered Holmes. “That is back through

dank air of the vault.
something depressing and subduing in the sudden gloom, and in the cold
me, with my nerves worked up to a pitch of expectancy, there was
the light was still there, ready to flash out at a moment’s notice. To
before experienced. The smell of hot metal remained to assure us that
and left us in pitch darkness—such an absolute darkness as I have never
which I crouched. Holmes shot the slide across the front of his lantern
I placed my revolver, cocked, upon the top of the wooden case behind

fire, Watson, have no compunction about shooting them down.”
those. Then, when I flash a light upon them, close in swiftly. If they
I shall stand behind this crate, and do you conceal yourselves behind
them at a disadvantage, they may do us some harm unless we are careful.
choose our positions. These are daring men, and though we shall take
that we cannot risk the presence of a light. And, first of all, we must
after all. But I see that the enemy’s preparations have gone so far
thought that, as we were a _partie carrée_, you might have your rubber
“I am afraid so. I had brought a pack of cards in my pocket, and I

“And sit in the dark?”

screen over that dark lantern.”
will come to a head. In the meantime Mr. Merryweather, we must put the
that we arranged our little plans. I expect that within an hour matters
“Which were very well justified,” observed Holmes. “And now it is time

subject.”
single branch office, and the directors have had misgivings upon the
reserve of bullion is much larger at present than is usually kept in a
contains 2,000 napoleons packed between layers of lead foil. Our
and that it is still lying in our cellar. The crate upon which I sit
has become known that we have never had occasion to unpack the money,
borrowed for that purpose 30,000 napoleons from the Bank of France. It
“Yes. We had occasion some months ago to strengthen our resources and

“Your French gold?”

warnings that an attempt might be made upon it.”
“It is our French gold,” whispered the director. “We have had several

at present.”
criminals of London should take a considerable interest in this cellar
and he will explain to you that there are reasons why the more daring
principal London banks. Mr. Merryweather is the chairman of directors,
doubt you have divined—in the cellar of the City branch of one of the
time they will have for their escape. We are at present, Doctor—as no
will not lose a minute, for the sooner they do their work the longer
take any steps until the good pawnbroker is safely in bed. Then they
“We have at least an hour before us,” he remarked, “for they can hardly

pocket.
satisfy him, for he sprang to his feet again and put his glass in his
minutely the cracks between the stones. A few seconds sufficed to
the floor and, with the lantern and a magnifying lens, began to examine
injured expression upon his face, while Holmes fell upon his knees upon
The solemn Mr. Merryweather perched himself upon a crate, with a very

upon one of those boxes, and not to interfere?”
expedition. Might I beg that you would have the goodness to sit down
severely. “You have already imperilled the whole success of our
“I must really ask you to be a little more quiet!” said Holmes

remarked, looking up in surprise.
flags which lined the floor. “Why, dear me, it sounds quite hollow!” he
“Nor from below,” said Mr. Merryweather, striking his stick upon the

the lantern and gazed about him.
“You are not very vulnerable from above,” Holmes remarked as he held up

piled all round with crates and massive boxes.
so, after opening a third door, into a huge vault or cellar, which was
lantern, and then conducted us down a dark, earth-smelling passage, and
at another formidable gate. Mr. Merryweather stopped to light a
opened, and led down a flight of winding stone steps, which terminated
corridor, which ended in a very massive iron gate. This also was
through a side door, which he opened for us. Within there was a small
guidance of Mr. Merryweather, we passed down a narrow passage and
ourselves in the morning. Our cabs were dismissed, and, following the
We had reached the same crowded thoroughfare in which we had found

claws upon anyone. Here we are, and they are waiting for us.”
is as brave as a bulldog and as tenacious as a lobster if he gets his
an absolute imbecile in his profession. He has one positive virtue. He
it as well to have Jones with us also. He is not a bad fellow, though
is a bank director, and personally interested in the matter. I thought
“We are close there now,” my friend remarked. “This fellow Merryweather

until we emerged into Farrington Street.
afternoon. We rattled through an endless labyrinth of gas-lit streets
lay back in the cab humming the tunes which he had heard in the
Sherlock Holmes was not very communicative during the long drive and

Watson and I will follow in the second.”
and quite time that we started. If you two will take the first hansom,
you that he is at the head of his profession. It is past ten, however,
had one or two little turns also with Mr. John Clay, and I agree with
“I hope that I may have the pleasure of introducing you to-night. I’ve

I’ve been on his track for years and have never set eyes on him yet.”
week, and be raising money to build an orphanage in Cornwall the next.
know where to find the man himself. He’ll crack a crib in Scotland one
his fingers, and though we meet signs of him at every turn, we never
and he himself has been to Eton and Oxford. His brain is as cunning as
remarkable man, is young John Clay. His grandfather was a royal duke,
rather have my bracelets on him than on any criminal in London. He’s a
Mr. Merryweather, but he is at the head of his profession, and I would
“John Clay, the murderer, thief, smasher, and forger. He’s a young man,

wish to lay your hands.”
some £ 30,000; and for you, Jones, it will be the man upon whom you
will be more exciting. For you, Mr. Merryweather, the stake will be
a higher stake to-night than you have ever done yet, and that the play
“I think you will find,” said Sherlock Holmes, “that you will play for

rubber.”
Saturday night for seven-and-twenty years that I have not had my
deference. “Still, I confess that I miss my rubber. It is the first
“Oh, if you say so, Mr. Jones, it is all right,” said the stranger with

force.”
Agra treasure, he has been more nearly correct than the official
that once or twice, as in that business of the Sholto murder and the
but he has the makings of a detective in him. It is not too much to say
won’t mind my saying so, just a little too theoretical and fantastic,
police agent loftily. “He has his own little methods, which are, if he
“You may place considerable confidence in Mr. Holmes, sir,” said the

observed Mr. Merryweather gloomily.
“I hope a wild goose may not prove to be the end of our chase,”

chase. All he wants is an old dog to help him to do the running down.”
consequential way. “Our friend here is a wonderful man for starting a
“We’re hunting in couples again, Doctor, you see,” said Jones in his

Merryweather, who is to be our companion in to-night’s adventure.”
know Mr. Jones, of Scotland Yard? Let me introduce you to Mr.
and taking his heavy hunting crop from the rack. “Watson, I think you
“Ha! Our party is complete,” said Holmes, buttoning up his pea-jacket

frock-coat.
sad-faced man, with a very shiny hat and oppressively respectable
Jones, the official police agent, while the other was a long, thin,
animated conversation with two men, one of whom I recognised as Peter
the sound of voices from above. On entering his room, I found Holmes in
hansoms were standing at the door, and as I entered the passage I heard
across the Park, and so through Oxford Street to Baker Street. Two
It was a quarter-past nine when I started from home and made my way

explanation.
up in despair and set the matter aside until night should bring an
man who might play a deep game. I tried to puzzle it out, but gave it
that this smooth-faced pawnbroker’s assistant was a formidable man—a
Where were we going, and what were we to do? I had the hint from Holmes
me. What was this nocturnal expedition, and why should I go armed?
Saxe-Coburg Square, and the ominous words with which he had parted from
of the red-headed copier of the _Encyclopædia_ down to the visit to
house in Kensington I thought over it all, from the extraordinary story
whole business was still confused and grotesque. As I drove home to my
only what had happened but what was about to happen, while to me the
seen, and yet from his words it was evident that he saw clearly not
Holmes. Here I had heard what he had heard, I had seen what he had
oppressed with a sense of my own stupidity in my dealings with Sherlock
I trust that I am not more dense than my neighbours, but I was always

turned on his heel, and disappeared in an instant among the crowd.
kindly put your army revolver in your pocket.” He waved his hand,
“Very well. And, I say, Doctor, there may be some little danger, so

“I shall be at Baker Street at ten.”

“Ten will be early enough.”

“At what time?”

rather complicates matters. I shall want your help to-night.”
believe that we shall be in time to stop it. But to-day being Saturday
“A considerable crime is in contemplation. I have every reason to

“Why serious?”

business at Coburg Square is serious.”
“And I have some business to do which will take some hours. This

“Yes, it would be as well.”

“You want to go home, no doubt, Doctor,” he remarked as we emerged.

he had set himself to hunt down.
James’s Hall I felt that an evil time might be coming upon those whom
mortals. When I saw him that afternoon so enwrapped in the music at St.
look askance at him as on a man whose knowledge was not that of other
intuition, until those who were unacquainted with his methods would
and that his brilliant reasoning power would rise to the level of
Then it was that the lust of the chase would suddenly come upon him,
his armchair amid his improvisations and his black-letter editions.
so truly formidable as when, for days on end, he had been lounging in
extreme languor to devouring energy; and, as I knew well, he was never
occasionally predominated in him. The swing of his nature took him from
the reaction against the poetic and contemplative mood which
extreme exactness and astuteness represented, as I have often thought,
singular character the dual nature alternately asserted itself, and his
ready-handed criminal agent, as it was possible to conceive. In his
of Holmes the sleuth-hound, Holmes the relentless, keen-witted,
gently smiling face and his languid, dreamy eyes were as unlike those
gently waving his long, thin fingers in time to the music, while his
afternoon he sat in the stalls wrapped in the most perfect happiness,
capable performer but a composer of no ordinary merit. All the
My friend was an enthusiastic musician, being himself not only a very

red-headed clients to vex us with their conundrums.”
where all is sweetness and delicacy and harmony, and there are no
some play. A sandwich and a cup of coffee, and then off to violin-land,
other block. And now, Doctor, we’ve done our work, so it’s time we had
McFarlane’s carriage-building depot. That carries us right on to the
branch of the City and Suburban Bank, the Vegetarian Restaurant, and
Mortimer’s, the tobacconist, the little newspaper shop, the Coburg
It is a hobby of mine to have an exact knowledge of London. There is
the line, “I should like just to remember the order of the houses here.
“Let me see,” said Holmes, standing at the corner and glancing along

square which we had just quitted.
they really abutted on the other side upon the faded and stagnant
looked at the line of fine shops and stately business premises that
the hurrying swarm of pedestrians. It was difficult to realise as we
a double tide inward and outward, while the footpaths were black with
The roadway was blocked with the immense stream of commerce flowing in
arteries which conveyed the traffic of the City to the north and west.
the front of a picture does to the back. It was one of the main
the retired Saxe-Coburg Square presented as great a contrast to it as
The road in which we found ourselves as we turned round the corner from

Let us now explore the parts which lie behind it.”
spies in an enemy’s country. We know something of Saxe-Coburg Square.
“My dear doctor, this is a time for observation, not for talk. We are

“Why did you beat the pavement?”

“What I expected to see.”

“And what did you see?”

“The knees of his trousers.”

“What then?”

“Not him.”

way merely in order that you might see him.”
this mystery of the Red-headed League. I am sure that you inquired your
“Evidently,” said I, “Mr. Wilson’s assistant counts for a good deal in

before.”
sure that he has not a claim to be third. I have known something of him
judgment, the fourth smartest man in London, and for daring I am not
“Smart fellow, that,” observed Holmes as we walked away. “He is, in my

the door.
“Third right, fourth left,” answered the assistant promptly, closing

from here to the Strand.”
“Thank you,” said Holmes, “I only wished to ask you how you would go

step in.
opened by a bright-looking, clean-shaven young fellow, who asked him to
three times, he went up to the door and knocked. It was instantly
and, having thumped vigorously upon the pavement with his stick two or
looking keenly at the houses. Finally he returned to the pawnbroker’s,
walked slowly up the street, and then down again to the corner, still
all over, with his eyes shining brightly between puckered lids. Then he
Holmes stopped in front of it with his head on one side and looked it
place where our red-headed client carried on his business. Sherlock
“JABEZ WILSON” in white letters, upon a corner house, announced the
and uncongenial atmosphere. Three gilt balls and a brown board with
clumps of faded laurel bushes made a hard fight against a smoke-laden
into a small railed-in enclosure, where a lawn of weedy grass and a few
place, where four lines of dingy two-storied brick houses looked out
had listened to in the morning. It was a poky, little, shabby-genteel
took us to Saxe-Coburg Square, the scene of the singular story which we
We travelled by the Underground as far as Aldersgate; and a short walk

along!”
Italian or French. It is introspective, and I want to introspect. Come
of German music on the programme, which is rather more to my taste than
we can have some lunch on the way. I observe that there is a good deal
“Then put on your hat and come. I am going through the City first, and

“I have nothing to do to-day. My practice is never very absorbing.”

hours?”
“What do you think, Watson? Could your patients spare you for a few
“Sarasate plays at the St. James’s Hall this afternoon,” he remarked.

mind and put his pipe down upon the mantelpiece.
sprang out of his chair with the gesture of a man who has made up his
he had dropped asleep, and indeed was nodding myself, when he suddenly
like the bill of some strange bird. I had come to the conclusion that
there he sat with his eyes closed and his black clay pipe thrusting out
his chair, with his thin knees drawn up to his hawk-like nose, and
that you won’t speak to me for fifty minutes.” He curled himself up in
“To smoke,” he answered. “It is quite a three pipe problem, and I beg

“What are you going to do, then?” I asked.

difficult to identify. But I must be prompt over this matter.”
which are really puzzling, just as a commonplace face is the most
mysterious it proves to be. It is your commonplace, featureless crimes
“As a rule,” said Holmes, “the more bizarre a thing is the less

business.”
“I make nothing of it,” I answered frankly. “It is a most mysterious

make of it all?”
“Well, Watson,” said Holmes when our visitor had left us, “what do you

hope that by Monday we may come to a conclusion.”
the subject in the course of a day or two. To-day is Saturday, and I
“That will do, Mr. Wilson. I shall be happy to give you an opinion upon

morning.”
“Nothing to complain of, sir. There’s never very much to do of a

“And has your business been attended to in your absence?”

“Oh, yes, sir; I have only just left him.”

you?”
“Hum!” said Holmes, sinking back in deep thought. “He is still with

lad.”
“Yes, sir. He told me that a gipsy had done it for him when he was a

earrings?”
much,” said he. “Have you ever observed that his ears are pierced for
Holmes sat up in his chair in considerable excitement. “I thought as

forehead.”
though he’s not short of thirty. Has a white splash of acid upon his
“Small, stout-built, very quick in his ways, no hair on his face,

“What is he like, this Vincent Spaulding?”

“Yes.”

“At half wages, in fact.”

“Because he was handy and would come cheap.”

“Why did you pick him?”

“No, I had a dozen.”

“Was he the only applicant?”

“In answer to an advertisement.”

“How did he come?”

“About a month then.”

your attention to the advertisement—how long had he been with you?”
or two questions, Mr. Wilson. This assistant of yours who first called
“We shall endeavour to clear up these points for you. And, first, one

pounds.”
was a pretty expensive joke for them, for it cost them two and thirty
their object was in playing this prank—if it was a prank—upon me. It
“No, sir. But I want to find out about them, and who they are, and what

which comes under the letter A. You have lost nothing by them.”
nothing of the minute knowledge which you have gained on every subject
the contrary, you are, as I understand, richer by some £ 30, to say
see that you have any grievance against this extraordinary league. On
“As far as you are personally concerned,” remarked Holmes, “I do not

week.”
“Grave enough!” said Mr. Jabez Wilson. “Why, I have lost four pound a

it than might at first sight appear.”
have told me I think that it is possible that graver issues hang from
remarkable one, and I shall be happy to look into it. From what you
“And you did very wisely,” said Holmes. “Your case is an exceedingly

who were in need of it, I came right away to you.”
as I had heard that you were good enough to give advice to poor folk
Mr. Holmes. I did not wish to lose such a place without a struggle, so,
if I waited I should hear by post. But that was not quite good enough,
assistant. But he could not help me in any way. He could only say that
“I went home to Saxe-Coburg Square, and I took the advice of my

“And what did you do then?” asked Holmes.

either Mr. William Morris or Mr. Duncan Ross.”
manufactory of artificial knee-caps, and no one in it had ever heard of
“I started off, Mr. Holmes, but when I got to that address it was a

Edward Street, near St. Paul’s.’
“‘Oh, at his new offices. He did tell me the address. Yes, 17 King

“‘Where could I find him?’

were ready. He moved out yesterday.’
was using my room as a temporary convenience until his new premises
“‘Oh,’ said he, ‘his name was William Morris. He was a solicitor and

“‘Yes.’

“‘What, the red-headed man?’

“‘Well,’ said I, ‘the gentleman at No. 4.’

name was new to him.
body. Then I asked him who Mr. Duncan Ross was. He answered that the
the Red-headed League. He said that he had never heard of any such
ground floor, and I asked him if he could tell me what had become of
Finally, I went to the landlord, who is an accountant living on the
offices round, but none of them seemed to know anything about it.
“I was staggered, sir. I did not know what to do. Then I called at the

take when you found the card upon the door?”
so, something just a little funny about it. Pray what steps did you
most refreshingly unusual. But there is, if you will excuse my saying
had half risen. “I really wouldn’t miss your case for the world. It is
“No, no,” cried Holmes, shoving him back into the chair from which he

better than laugh at me, I can go elsewhere.”
flushing up to the roots of his flaming head. “If you can do nothing
“I cannot see that there is anything very funny,” cried our client,

of laughter.
overtopped every other consideration that we both burst out into a roar
face behind it, until the comical side of the affair so completely
Sherlock Holmes and I surveyed this curt announcement and the rueful


“THE RED-HEADED LEAGUE IS DISSOLVED. October 9, 1890.”

note-paper. It read in this fashion:
He held up a piece of white cardboard about the size of a sheet of

it is, and you can read for yourself.”
of cardboard hammered on to the middle of the panel with a tack. Here
at ten o’clock, but the door was shut and locked, with a little square
“Yes, sir. And no later than this morning. I went to my work as usual

“To an end?”

writings. And then suddenly the whole business came to an end.”
something in foolscap, and I had pretty nearly filled a shelf with my
diligence that I might get on to the B’s before very long. It cost me
Archery and Armour and Architecture and Attica, and hoped with
“Eight weeks passed away like this, and I had written about Abbots and

not risk the loss of it.
and the billet was such a good one, and suited me so well, that I would
leave the room for an instant, for I was not sure when he might come,
time, he did not come in at all. Still, of course, I never dared to
Duncan Ross took to coming in only once of a morning, and then, after a
was there at ten, and every afternoon I left at two. By degrees Mr.
was the same next week, and the same the week after. Every morning I
came in and planked down four golden sovereigns for my week’s work. It
“This went on day after day, Mr. Holmes, and on Saturday the manager

after me.
upon the amount that I had written, and locked the door of the office
was right with me. At two o’clock he bade me good-day, complimented me
then he left me; but he would drop in from time to time to see that all
see that I got fairly to work. He started me off upon the letter A, and
The table was set out ready for me, and Mr. Duncan Ross was there to
“Well, to my surprise and delight, everything was as right as possible.

started off for Pope’s Court.
ink, and with a quill-pen, and seven sheets of foolscap paper, I
determined to have a look at it anyhow, so I bought a penny bottle of
reasoned myself out of the whole thing. However, in the morning I
Spaulding did what he could to cheer me up, but by bedtime I had
so simple as copying out the _Encyclopædia Britannica_. Vincent
make such a will, or that they would pay such a sum for doing anything
could not imagine. It seemed altogether past belief that anyone could
must be some great hoax or fraud, though what its object might be I
spirits again; for I had quite persuaded myself that the whole affair
“Well, I thought over the matter all day, and by evening I was in low

fortune.
hardly knowing what to say or do, I was so pleased at my own good
gain.’ He bowed me out of the room and I went home with my assistant,
more on the important position which you have been fortunate enough to
“‘Then, good-bye, Mr. Jabez Wilson, and let me congratulate you once

“‘Certainly,’ I answered.

to-morrow?’
blotting-paper, but we provide this table and chair. Will you be ready
volume of it in that press. You must find your own ink, pens, and
“‘Is to copy out the _Encyclopædia Britannica_. There is the first

“‘And the work?’

billet.’
business nor anything else. There you must stay, or you lose your
“‘No excuse will avail,’ said Mr. Duncan Ross; ‘neither sickness nor

I.
“‘It’s only four hours a day, and I should not think of leaving,’ said

conditions if you budge from the office during that time.’
will is very clear upon that point. You don’t comply with the
whole time. If you leave, you forfeit your whole position forever. The
“‘Well, you have to be in the office, or at least in the building, the

“‘What do you call purely nominal?’

“‘Is purely nominal.’

“‘And the work?’

“‘Is £ 4 a week.’

“‘That would suit me very well,’ said I. ‘And the pay?’

to anything that turned up.
Besides, I knew that my assistant was a good man, and that he would see
so it would suit me very well to earn a little in the mornings.
especially Thursday and Friday evening, which is just before pay-day;
“Now a pawnbroker’s business is mostly done of an evening, Mr. Holmes,

“‘Ten to two.’

“‘What would be the hours?’ I asked.

should be able to look after that for you.’
“‘Oh, never mind about that, Mr. Wilson!’ said Vincent Spaulding. ‘I

“‘Well, it is a little awkward, for I have a business already,’ said I.

yours. When shall you be able to enter upon your new duties?’
we must stretch a point in favour of a man with such a head of hair as
“‘In the case of another,’ said he, ‘the objection might be fatal, but

minutes he said that it would be all right.
to have the vacancy after all; but after thinking it over for a few
“My face lengthened at this, Mr. Holmes, for I thought that I was not

exceedingly unfortunate that you should be a bachelor.’
spread of the red-heads as well as for their maintenance. It is
to hear you say that. The fund was, of course, for the propagation and
“‘Dear me!’ he said gravely, ‘that is very serious indeed! I am sorry

“His face fell immediately.

“I answered that I had not.

married man, Mr. Wilson? Have you a family?’
pensioners upon the fund left by our noble benefactor. Are you a
“‘My name,’ said he, ‘is Mr. Duncan Ross, and I am myself one of the

not a red-head to be seen except my own and that of the manager.
and the folk all trooped away in different directions until there was
the vacancy was filled. A groan of disappointment came up from below,
over to the window and shouted through it at the top of his voice that
of cobbler’s wax which would disgust you with human nature.’ He stepped
twice been deceived by wigs and once by paint. I could tell you tales
that all is as it should be. But we have to be careful, for we have
‘There is water in your eyes,’ said he as he released me. ‘I perceive
my hair in both his hands, and tugged until I yelled with the pain.
sure, excuse me for taking an obvious precaution.’ With that he seized
“‘It would be injustice to hesitate,’ said he. ‘You will, however, I am

hand, and congratulated me warmly on my success.
until I felt quite bashful. Then suddenly he plunged forward, wrung my
took a step backward, cocked his head on one side, and gazed at my hair
requirement. I cannot recall when I have seen anything so fine.’ He
“‘And he is admirably suited for it,’ the other answered. ‘He has every

fill a vacancy in the League.’
“‘This is Mr. Jabez Wilson,’ said my assistant, ‘and he is willing to

as we entered, so that he might have a private word with us.
more favourable to me than to any of the others, and he closed the door
matter, after all. However, when our turn came the little man was much
disqualify them. Getting a vacancy did not seem to be such a very easy
and then he always managed to find some fault in them which would
redder than mine. He said a few words to each candidate as he came up,
deal table, behind which sat a small man with a head that was even
“There was nothing in the office but a couple of wooden chairs and a

“Pray continue your very interesting statement.”
his client paused and refreshed his memory with a huge pinch of snuff.
“Your experience has been a most entertaining one,” remarked Holmes as

wedged in as well as we could and soon found ourselves in the office.”
the stair, some going up in hope, and some coming back dejected; but we
to the steps which led to the office. There was a double stream upon
and pulled and butted until he got me through the crowd, and right up
would not hear of it. How he did it I could not imagine, but he pushed
many were waiting, I would have given it up in despair; but Spaulding
not many who had the real vivid flame-coloured tint. When I saw how
brick, Irish-setter, liver, clay; but, as Spaulding said, there were
advertisement. Every shade of colour they were—straw, lemon, orange,
the whole country as were brought together by that single
coster’s orange barrow. I should not have thought there were so many in
Street was choked with red-headed folk, and Pope’s Court looked like a
hair had tramped into the city to answer the advertisement. Fleet
north, south, east, and west every man who had a shade of red in his
“I never hope to see such a sight as that again, Mr. Holmes. From

started off for the address that was given us in the advertisement.
He was very willing to have a holiday, so we shut the business up and
him to put up the shutters for the day and to come right away with me.
much about it that I thought he might prove useful, so I just ordered
as any man that I had ever met. Vincent Spaulding seemed to know so
there was to be any competition in the matter I stood as good a chance
hair is of a very full and rich tint, so that it seemed to me that if
“Now, it is a fact, gentlemen, as you may see for yourselves, that my

the way for the sake of a few hundred pounds.’
but perhaps it would hardly be worth your while to put yourself out of
red. Now, if you cared to apply, Mr. Wilson, you would just walk in;
light red, or dark red, or anything but real bright, blazing, fiery
Then, again, I have heard it is no use your applying if your hair is
London when he was young, and he wanted to do the old town a good turn.
confined to Londoners, and to grown men. This American had started from
“‘Not so many as you might think,’ he answered. ‘You see it is really

apply.’
“‘But,’ said I, ‘there would be millions of red-headed men who would

and very little to do.’
men whose hair is of that colour. From all I hear it is splendid pay
instructions to apply the interest to the providing of easy berths to
had left his enormous fortune in the hands of trustees, with
sympathy for all red-headed men; so, when he died, it was found that he
peculiar in his ways. He was himself red-headed, and he had a great
was founded by an American millionaire, Ezekiah Hopkins, who was very
you should apply for particulars. As far as I can make out, the League
yourself that the League has a vacancy, and there is the address where
“‘Well,’ said he, showing me the advertisement, ‘you can see for

“‘Tell me all about it,’ said I.

hundred would have been very handy.
business has not been over good for some years, and an extra couple of
“Well, you can easily think that that made me prick up my ears, for the

need not interfere very much with one’s other occupations.’
“‘Oh, merely a couple of hundred a year, but the work is slight, and it

“‘And what are they worth?’ I asked.

vacancies.’
“‘Why, I wonder at that, for you are eligible yourself for one of the

“‘Never.’

with his eyes open.
“‘Have you never heard of the League of the Red-headed Men?’ he asked

and I was always glad of a bit of news.
door-mat. In that way I didn’t know much of what was going on outside,
go to it, I was often weeks on end without putting my foot over the
stay-at-home man, and as my business came to me instead of my having to
“‘Why, what is it, then?’ I asked. You see, Mr. Holmes, I am a very

ready for me to step into.’
If my hair would only change colour, here’s a nice little crib all
so that the trustees are at their wits’ end what to do with the money.
it, and I understand that there are more vacancies than there are men,
Red-headed Men. It’s worth quite a little fortune to any man who gets
“‘Why,’ says he, ‘here’s another vacancy on the League of the

“‘Why that?’ I asks.

“‘I wish to the Lord, Mr. Wilson, that I was a red-headed man.’

paper in his hand, and he says:
came down into the office just this day eight weeks, with this very
“The first thing that put us out was that advertisement. Spaulding, he

nothing more.
of us; and we keep a roof over our heads and pay our debts, if we do
widower and never had any family. We live very quietly, sir, the three
and keeps the place clean—that’s all I have in the house, for I am a
“Yes, sir. He and a girl of fourteen, who does a bit of simple cooking

“He is still with you, I presume?”

the whole he’s a good worker. There’s no vice in him.”
into its hole to develop his pictures. That is his main fault, but on
improving his mind, and then diving down into the cellar like a rabbit
for photography. Snapping away with a camera when he ought to be
“Oh, he has his faults, too,” said Mr. Wilson. “Never was such a fellow

remarkable as your advertisement.”
employers in this age. I don’t know that your assistant is not as
under the full market price. It is not a common experience among
“Why, indeed? You seem most fortunate in having an _employé_ who comes

put ideas in his head?”
am able to give him. But, after all, if he is satisfied, why should I
and I know very well that he could better himself and earn twice what I
hard to say his age. I should not wish a smarter assistant, Mr. Holmes;
“His name is Vincent Spaulding, and he’s not such a youth, either. It’s

“What is the name of this obliging youth?” asked Sherlock Holmes.

wages so as to learn the business.”
would have a job to pay him but that he is willing to come for half
used to be able to keep two assistants, but now I only keep one; and I
and of late years it has not done more than just give me a living. I
business at Coburg Square, near the City. It’s not a very large affair,
said Jabez Wilson, mopping his forehead; “I have a small pawnbroker’s
“Well, it is just as I have been telling you, Mr. Sherlock Holmes,”

“Very good. Now, Mr. Wilson?”

“It is _The Morning Chronicle_ of April 27, 1890. Just two months ago.”

and the date.”
upon your fortunes. You will first make a note, Doctor, of the paper
yourself, your household, and the effect which this advertisement had
“And now, Mr. Wilson, off you go at scratch and tell us all about
high spirits. “It is a little off the beaten track, isn’t it?” said he.
Holmes chuckled and wriggled in his chair, as was his habit when in

over the extraordinary announcement.
“What on earth does this mean?” I ejaculated after I had twice read


offices of the League, 7 Pope’s Court, Fleet Street.”
Apply in person on Monday, at eleven o’clock, to Duncan Ross, at the
body and mind and above the age of twenty-one years, are eligible.
week for purely nominal services. All red-headed men who are sound in
vacancy open which entitles a member of the League to a salary of £ 4 a
Ezekiah Hopkins, of Lebanon, Pennsylvania, U.S.A., there is now another
“TO THE RED-HEADED LEAGUE: On account of the bequest of the late

I took the paper from him and read as follows:

just read it for yourself, sir.”
halfway down the column. “Here it is. This is what began it all. You
“Yes, I have got it now,” he answered with his thick red finger planted

candid. Can you not find the advertisement, Mr. Wilson?”
little reputation, such as it is, will suffer shipwreck if I am so
explaining. ‘_Omne ignotum pro magnifico_,’ you know, and my poor
“I begin to think, Watson,” said Holmes, “that I make a mistake in

nothing in it after all.”
at first that you had done something clever, but I see that there was
Mr. Jabez Wilson laughed heavily. “Well, I never!” said he. “I thought

your watch-chain, the matter becomes even more simple.”
peculiar to China. When, in addition, I see a Chinese coin hanging from
trick of staining the fishes’ scales of a delicate pink is quite
marks and have even contributed to the literature of the subject. That
could only have been done in China. I have made a small study of tattoo
“The fish that you have tattooed immediately above your right wrist

“Well, but China?”

rest it upon the desk?”
inches, and the left one with the smooth patch near the elbow where you
“What else can be indicated by that right cuff so very shiny for five

“Ah, of course, I forgot that. But the writing?”

an arc-and-compass breastpin.”
especially as, rather against the strict rules of your order, you use
“I won’t insult your intelligence by telling you how I read that,

“Well, the snuff, then, and the Freemasonry?”

developed.”
your left. You have worked with it, and the muscles are more
“Your hands, my dear sir. Your right hand is quite a size larger than

It’s as true as gospel, for I began as a ship’s carpenter.”
he asked. “How did you know, for example, that I did manual labour.
“How, in the name of good-fortune, did you know all that, Mr. Holmes?”

paper, but his eyes upon my companion.
Mr. Jabez Wilson started up in his chair, with his forefinger upon the

a considerable amount of writing lately, I can deduce nothing else.”
that he is a Freemason, that he has been in China, and that he has done
facts that he has at some time done manual labour, that he takes snuff,
with a smile as he noticed my questioning glances. “Beyond the obvious
Sherlock Holmes’ quick eye took in my occupation, and he shook his head

discontent upon his features.
save his blazing red head, and the expression of extreme chagrin and
Altogether, look as I would, there was nothing remarkable about the man
overcoat with a wrinkled velvet collar lay upon a chair beside him.
metal dangling down as an ornament. A frayed top-hat and a faded brown
waistcoat with a heavy brassy Albert chain, and a square pierced bit of
a not over-clean black frock-coat, unbuttoned in the front, and a drab
pompous, and slow. He wore rather baggy grey shepherd’s check trousers,
every mark of being an average commonplace British tradesman, obese,
I did not gain very much, however, by my inspection. Our visitor bore

dress or appearance.
companion, to read the indications which might be presented by his
I took a good look at the man and endeavoured, after the fashion of my
with his head thrust forward and the paper flattened out upon his knee,
pocket of his greatcoat. As he glanced down the advertisement column,
little pride and pulled a dirty and wrinkled newspaper from the inside
The portly client puffed out his chest with an appearance of some

admit that the facts are, to the best of my belief, unique.”
cases which occur to my memory. In the present instance I am forced to
events, I am able to guide myself by the thousands of other similar
a rule, when I have heard some slight indication of the course of
story makes me anxious to have every possible detail from your lips. As
not heard the opening part but also because the peculiar nature of the
your narrative. I ask you not merely because my friend Dr. Watson has
Perhaps, Mr. Wilson, you would have the great kindness to recommence
is certainly among the most singular that I have ever listened to.
present case is an instance of crime or not, but the course of events
As far as I have heard, it is impossible for me to say whether the
there is room for doubt whether any positive crime has been committed.
the larger but with the smaller crimes, and occasionally, indeed, where
the strangest and most unique things are very often connected not with
which I have listened to for some time. You have heard me remark that
and to begin a narrative which promises to be one of the most singular
Jabez Wilson here has been good enough to call upon me this morning,
reason breaks down under them and acknowledges me to be right. Now, Mr.
otherwise I shall keep on piling fact upon fact on you until your
“You did, Doctor, but none the less you must come round to my view, for

“A proposition which I took the liberty of doubting.”

imagination.”
itself, which is always far more daring than any effort of the
for strange effects and extraordinary combinations we must go to life
into the very simple problem presented by Miss Mary Sutherland, that
“You will remember that I remarked the other day, just before we went

observed.
“Your cases have indeed been of the greatest interest to me,” I

so many of my own little adventures.”
chronicle, and, if you will excuse my saying so, somewhat to embellish
shown your relish for it by the enthusiasm which has prompted you to
outside the conventions and humdrum routine of everyday life. You have
know, my dear Watson, that you share my love of all that is bizarre and
his fingertips together, as was his custom when in judicial moods. “I
“Try the settee,” said Holmes, relapsing into his armchair and putting

fat-encircled eyes.
greeting, with a quick little questioning glance from his small
The stout gentleman half rose from his chair and gave a bob of

be of the utmost use to me in yours also.”
in many of my most successful cases, and I have no doubt that he will
“Not at all. This gentleman, Mr. Wilson, has been my partner and helper

“Then I can wait in the next room.”

“So I am. Very much so.”

“I was afraid that you were engaged.”

said cordially.
“You could not possibly have come at a better time, my dear Watson,” he

 me abruptly into the room and closed the door behind me.
 apology for my intrusion, I was about to withdraw when Holmes pulled
 stout, florid-faced, elderly gentleman with fiery red hair. With an
 autumn of last year and found him in deep conversation with a very
 I had called upon my friend, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, one day in the


II. THE RED-HEADED LEAGUE



title of _the_ woman.
when he refers to her photograph, it is always under the honourable
have not heard him do it of late. And when he speaks of Irene Adler, or
woman’s wit. He used to make merry over the cleverness of women, but I
Bohemia, and how the best plans of Mr. Sherlock Holmes were beaten by a
And that was how a great scandal threatened to affect the kingdom of

out to him, he set off in my company for his chambers.
turning away without observing the hand which the King had stretched
I have the honour to wish you a very good morning.” He bowed, and,
“I thank your Majesty. Then there is no more to be done in the matter.

“Irene’s photograph!” he cried. “Certainly, if you wish it.”

The King stared at him in amazement.

“This photograph!”

“You have but to name it.”

said Holmes.
“Your Majesty has something which I should value even more highly,”

held it out upon the palm of his hand.
you. This ring—” He slipped an emerald snake ring from his finger and
“I am immensely indebted to you. Pray tell me in what way I can reward

“I am glad to hear your Majesty say so.”

safe as if it were in the fire.”
successful. I know that her word is inviolate. The photograph is now as
“On the contrary, my dear sir,” cried the King; “nothing could be more

successful conclusion.”
I have not been able to bring your Majesty’s business to a more
different level to your Majesty,” said Holmes coldly. “I am sorry that
“From what I have seen of the lady, she seems, indeed, to be on a very

that she was not on my level?”
she was? Would she not have made an admirable queen? Is it not a pity
all three read this epistle. “Did I not tell you how quick and resolute
“What a woman—oh, what a woman!” cried the King of Bohemia, when we had


    “IRENE NORTON, _née_ ADLER.”

    “Very truly yours,


    possess; and I remain, dear Mr. Sherlock Holmes,
    take in the future. I leave a photograph which he might care to
    weapon which will always secure me from any steps which he might
    wronged. I keep it only to safeguard myself, and to preserve a
    what he will without hindrance from one whom he has cruelly
    peace. I love and am loved by a better man than he. The King may do
    call to-morrow. As to the photograph, your client may rest in
    formidable an antagonist; so you will find the nest empty when you
    “We both thought the best resource was flight, when pursued by so

    the Temple to see my husband.
    Then I, rather imprudently, wished you good-night, and started for
    really an object of interest to the celebrated Mr. Sherlock Holmes.
    “Well, I followed you to your door, and so made sure that I was

    down just as you departed.
    ran upstairs, got into my walking clothes, as I call them, and came
    freedom which it gives. I sent John, the coachman, to watch you,
    Male costume is nothing new to me. I often take advantage of the
    clergyman. But, you know, I have been trained as an actress myself.
    suspicious, I found it hard to think evil of such a dear, kind old
    made me reveal what you wanted to know. Even after I became
    be you. And your address had been given me. Yet, with all this, you
    been told that, if the King employed an agent, it would certainly
    began to think. I had been warned against you months ago. I had
    suspicion. But then, when I found how I had betrayed myself, I
    me in completely. Until after the alarm of fire, I had not a
    “MY DEAR MR. SHERLOCK HOLMES,—You really did it very well. You took

midnight of the preceding night and ran in this way:
friend tore it open, and we all three read it together. It was dated at
superscribed to “Sherlock Holmes, Esq. To be left till called for.” My
photograph was of Irene Adler herself in evening dress, the letter was
plunging in his hand, pulled out a photograph and a letter. The
Holmes rushed at the bell-pull, tore back a small sliding shutter, and,
drawers, as if the lady had hurriedly ransacked them before her flight.
scattered about in every direction, with dismantled shelves and open
drawing-room, followed by the King and myself. The furniture was
“We shall see.” He pushed past the servant and rushed into the

“And the papers?” asked the King hoarsely. “All is lost.”

“Never to return.”

surprise. “Do you mean that she has left England?”
“What!” Sherlock Holmes staggered back, white with chagrin and

the Continent.”
this morning with her husband by the 5:15 train from Charing Cross for
“Indeed! My mistress told me that you were likely to call. She left

questioning and rather startled gaze.
“I am Mr. Holmes,” answered my companion, looking at her with a

“Mr. Sherlock Holmes, I believe?” said she.

brougham.
steps. She watched us with a sardonic eye as we stepped from the
The door of Briony Lodge was open, and an elderly woman stood upon the

which was not broken until we drew up in Serpentine Avenue.
What a queen she would have made!” He relapsed into a moody silence,
“It is true. And yet—! Well! I wish she had been of my own station!

your Majesty’s plan.”
not love your Majesty, there is no reason why she should interfere with
the lady loves her husband, she does not love your Majesty. If she does
“Because it would spare your Majesty all fear of future annoyance. If

“And why in hopes?”

“I am in hopes that she does.”

“But she could not love him.”

“To an English lawyer named Norton.”

“But to whom?”

“Yesterday.”

“Married! When?”

“Irene Adler is married,” remarked Holmes.

more for Briony Lodge.
“Then that will simplify matters.” We descended and started off once

“No, my brougham is waiting.”

“We must have a cab.”

“Then, come. I am all impatience to be gone.”

“I have hopes.”

“But you have hopes?”

“Not yet.”

shoulder and looking eagerly into his face.
“You have really got it!” he cried, grasping Sherlock Holmes by either

room.
and coffee in the morning when the King of Bohemia rushed into the
I slept at Baker Street that night, and we were engaged upon our toast

III.


street. “Now, I wonder who the deuce that could have been.”
“I’ve heard that voice before,” said Holmes, staring down the dimly lit

appeared to come from a slim youth in an ulster who had hurried by.
There were several people on the pavement at the time, but the greeting

“Good-night, Mister Sherlock Holmes.”

searching his pockets for the key when someone passing said:
We had reached Baker Street and had stopped at the door. He was

delay.”
complete change in her life and habits. I must wire to the King without
clear field. Besides, we must be prompt, for this marriage may mean a
“At eight in the morning. She will not be up, so that we shall have a

“And when will you call?”

a satisfaction to his Majesty to regain it with his own hands.”
when she comes she may find neither us nor the photograph. It might be
into the sitting-room to wait for the lady, but it is probable that
to-morrow, and with you, if you care to come with us. We will be shown
“Our quest is practically finished. I shall call with the King

“And now?” I asked.

seemed safer to wait. A little over-precipitance may ruin all.”
but the coachman had come in, and as he was watching me narrowly, it
house. I hesitated whether to attempt to secure the photograph at once;
not seen her since. I rose, and, making my excuses, escaped from the
replaced it, glanced at the rocket, rushed from the room, and I have
she half drew it out. When I cried out that it was a false alarm, she
bell-pull. She was there in an instant, and I caught a glimpse of it as
photograph is in a recess behind a sliding panel just above the right
were enough to shake nerves of steel. She responded beautifully. The
secure it. The alarm of fire was admirably done. The smoke and shouting
more precious to her than what we are in quest of. She would rush to
Now it was clear to me that our lady of to-day had nothing in the house
woman grabs at her baby; an unmarried one reaches for her jewel-box.
was of use to me, and also in the Arnsworth Castle business. A married
advantage of it. In the case of the Darlington Substitution Scandal it
is a perfectly overpowering impulse, and I have more than once taken
her instinct is at once to rush to the thing which she values most. It
“It was all-important. When a woman thinks that her house is on fire,

“How did that help you?”

compelled to open the window, and you had your chance.”
see which. They laid me on a couch, I motioned for air, they were
suspected. It lay between that and her bedroom, and I was determined to
she do? And into her sitting-room, which was the very room which I
“Then they carried me in. She was bound to have me in. What else could

“That also I could fathom.”

face, and became a piteous spectacle. It is an old trick.”
palm of my hand. I rushed forward, fell down, clapped my hand to my
“Then, when the row broke out, I had a little moist red paint in the

“I guessed as much.”

an accomplice. They were all engaged for the evening.”
perfectly simple. You, of course, saw that everyone in the street was
“I do not wish to make a mystery,” said he, laughing. “The matter was

“I am still in the dark.”

“She showed me, as I told you she would.”

“And how did you find out?”

“I know where it is.”

“You have the photograph?”

better. It is all right.”
“You did it very nicely, Doctor,” he remarked. “Nothing could have been

quiet streets which lead towards the Edgeware Road.
and in silence for some few minutes until we had turned down one of the
in mine, and to get away from the scene of uproar. He walked swiftly
of the street, and in ten minutes was rejoiced to find my friend’s arm
alarm. Slipping through the shouting crowd I made my way to the corner
the voice of Holmes from within assuring them that it was a false
open window. I caught a glimpse of rushing figures, and a moment later
“Fire!” Thick clouds of smoke curled through the room and out at the
ill—gentlemen, ostlers, and servant maids—joined in a general shriek of
of my mouth than the whole crowd of spectators, well dressed and
rocket into the room with a cry of “Fire!” The word was no sooner out
the same instant I saw him raise his hand and at the signal I tossed my
is in need of air. A maid rushed across and threw open the window. At
Holmes had sat up upon the couch, and I saw him motion like a man who

injuring another.
thought, we are not injuring her. We are but preventing her from
my heart, and took the smoke-rocket from under my ulster. After all, I
to draw back now from the part which he had intrusted to me. I hardened
the injured man. And yet it would be the blackest treachery to Holmes
was conspiring, or the grace and kindliness with which she waited upon
myself in my life than when I saw the beautiful creature against whom I
was playing, but I know that I never felt more heartily ashamed of
whether he was seized with compunction at that moment for the part he
so that I could see Holmes as he lay upon the couch. I do not know
the window. The lamps had been lit, but the blinds had not been drawn,
principal room, while I still observed the proceedings from my post by
Slowly and solemnly he was borne into Briony Lodge and laid out in the

This way, please!”
“Surely. Bring him into the sitting-room. There is a comfortable sofa.

“He can’t lie in the street. May we bring him in, marm?”

rough one, too. Ah, he’s breathing now.”
purse and watch if it hadn’t been for him. They were a gang, and a
“He’s a brave fellow,” said a woman. “They would have had the lady’s

before you can get him to hospital.”
“No, no, there’s life in him!” shouted another. “But he’ll be gone

“He is dead,” cried several voices.

“Is the poor gentleman much hurt?” she asked.

the hall, looking back into the street.
stood at the top with her superb figure outlined against the lights of
Adler, as I will still call her, had hurried up the steps; but she
crowded in to help the lady and to attend to the injured man. Irene
dressed people, who had watched the scuffle without taking part in it,
direction and the loungers in the other, while a number of better
down his face. At his fall the guardsmen took to their heels in one
he gave a cry and dropped to the ground, with the blood running freely
dashed into the crowd to protect the lady; but, just as he reached her,
struck savagely at each other with their fists and sticks. Holmes
was the centre of a little knot of flushed and struggling men, who
struck, and in an instant the lady, who had stepped from her carriage,
scissors-grinder, who was equally hot upon the other side. A blow was
the two guardsmen, who took sides with one of the loungers, and by the
the same intention. A fierce quarrel broke out, which was increased by
copper, but was elbowed away by another loafer, who had rushed up with
the corner dashed forward to open the door in the hope of earning a
the door of Briony Lodge. As it pulled up, one of the loafing men at
curve of the avenue. It was a smart little landau which rattled up to
As he spoke the gleam of the sidelights of a carriage came round the

carriage. Now carry out my orders to the letter.”
“She will not be able to. But I hear the rumble of wheels. It is her

“But she will refuse.”

“I will get her to show me.”

“What then?”

“I will not look.”

“But how will you look?”

“Pshaw! They did not know how to look.”

“But it has twice been burgled.”

in her own house.”
a few days. It must be where she can lay her hands upon it. It must be
business man. Besides, remember that she had resolved to use it within
indirect or political influence might be brought to bear upon a
She could trust her own guardianship, but she could not tell what
to do their own secreting. Why should she hand it over to anyone else?
inclined to think neither. Women are naturally secretive, and they like
“Her banker or her lawyer. There is that double possibility. But I am

“Where, then?”

she does not carry it about with her.”
attempts of the sort have already been made. We may take it, then, that
that the King is capable of having her waylaid and searched. Two
size. Too large for easy concealment about a woman’s dress. She knows
“It is most unlikely that she carries it about with her. It is cabinet

“Where, indeed?”

the photograph?”
to the eyes of his princess. Now the question is, Where are we to find
to its being seen by Mr. Godfrey Norton, as our client is to its coming
a double-edged weapon now. The chances are that she would be as averse
house, “this marriage rather simplifies matters. The photograph becomes
“You see,” remarked Holmes, as we paced to and fro in front of the

down with cigars in their mouths.
nurse-girl, and several well-dressed young men who were lounging up and
scissors-grinder with his wheel, two guardsmen who were flirting with a
shabbily dressed men smoking and laughing in a corner, a
quiet neighbourhood, it was remarkably animated. There was a group of
less private than I expected. On the contrary, for a small street in a
Sherlock Holmes’ succinct description, but the locality appeared to be
of its occupant. The house was just such as I had pictured it from
we paced up and down in front of Briony Lodge, waiting for the coming
Avenue. It was already dusk, and the lamps were just being lighted as
wanted ten minutes to the hour when we found ourselves in Serpentine
It was a quarter past six when we left Baker Street, and it still

specialist in crime.
fine actor, even as science lost an acute reasoner, when he became a
seemed to vary with every fresh part that he assumed. The stage lost a
Holmes changed his costume. His expression, his manner, his very soul
as Mr. John Hare alone could have equalled. It was not merely that
smile, and general look of peering and benevolent curiosity were such
broad black hat, his baggy trousers, his white tie, his sympathetic
character of an amiable and simple-minded Nonconformist clergyman. His
He disappeared into his bedroom and returned in a few minutes in the

for the new role I have to play.”
“That is excellent. I think, perhaps, it is almost time that I prepare

“Then you may entirely rely on me.”

“Precisely.”

to wait you at the corner of the street.”
the signal to throw in this object, then to raise the cry of fire, and
“I am to remain neutral, to get near the window, to watch you, and at

myself clear?”
street, and I will rejoin you in ten minutes. I hope that I have made
by quite a number of people. You may then walk to the end of the
confined to that. When you raise your cry of fire, it will be taken up
with a cap at either end to make it self-lighting. Your task is
roll from his pocket. “It is an ordinary plumber’s smoke-rocket, fitted
“It is nothing very formidable,” he said, taking a long cigar-shaped

“Entirely.”

quite follow me?”
you to throw, and will, at the same time, raise the cry of fire. You
“And when I raise my hand—so—you will throw into the room what I give

“Yes.”

“You are to watch me, for I will be visible to you.”

“Yes.”

will open. You are to station yourself close to that open window.”
into the house. Four or five minutes afterwards the sitting-room window
unpleasantness. Do not join in it. It will end in my being conveyed
“To do nothing whatever. There will probably be some small

“I am to be neutral?”

come what may. You understand?”
There is only one point on which I must insist. You must not interfere,
“You must leave that to me. I have already arranged what is to occur.

“And what then?”

seven. We must be at Briony Lodge to meet her.”
of action. Miss Irene, or Madame, rather, returns from her drive at
much time. It is nearly five now. In two hours we must be on the scene
landlady had provided, “I must discuss it while I eat, for I have not
Now,” he said as he turned hungrily on the simple fare that our
“When Mrs. Turner has brought in the tray I will make it clear to you.

“But what is it you wish?”

“I was sure that I might rely on you.”

“Then I am your man.”

“Oh, the cause is excellent!”

“Not in a good cause.”

“Nor running a chance of arrest?”

“Not in the least.”

“You don’t mind breaking the law?”

“I shall be delighted.”

this evening. By the way, Doctor, I shall want your co-operation.”
have been too busy to think of food, and I am likely to be busier still
“Some cold beef and a glass of beer,” he answered, ringing the bell. “I

“Which are?”

went off to make my own arrangements.”
him. I heard no more. They drove away in different directions, and I
shall drive out in the park at five as usual,’ she said as she left
separated, he driving back to the Temple, and she to her own house. ‘I
and energetic measures on my part. At the church door, however, they
pair might take an immediate departure, and so necessitate very prompt
“Well, I found my plans very seriously menaced. It looked as if the

“This is a very unexpected turn of affairs,” said I; “and what then?”

mean to wear it on my watch chain in memory of the occasion.”
streets in search of a best man. The bride gave me a sovereign, and I
appearance saved the bridegroom from having to sally out into the
to marry them without a witness of some sort, and that my lucky
informality about their license, that the clergyman absolutely refused
that started me laughing just now. It seems that there had been some
in which I ever found myself in my life, and it was the thought of it
clergyman beamed on me in front. It was the most preposterous position
thanking me on the one side and the lady on the other, while the
bachelor. It was all done in an instant, and there was the gentleman
the secure tying up of Irene Adler, spinster, to Godfrey Norton,
vouching for things of which I knew nothing, and generally assisting in
found myself mumbling responses which were whispered in my ear, and
“I was half-dragged up to the altar, and before I knew where I was I

“‘Come, man, come, only three minutes, or it won’t be legal.’

“‘What then?’ I asked.

“‘Thank God,’ he cried. ‘You’ll do. Come! Come!’

me, and Godfrey Norton came running as hard as he could towards me.
church. Suddenly, to my surprise, the three at the altar faced round to
lounged up the side aisle like any other idler who has dropped into a
them. They were all three standing in a knot in front of the altar. I
followed and a surpliced clergyman, who seemed to be expostulating with
into the church. There was not a soul there save the two whom I had
were in front of the door when I arrived. I paid the man and hurried
were there before us. The cab and the landau with their steaming horses
“My cabby drove fast. I don’t think I ever drove faster, but the others

clear enough what was in the wind.
minutes.’ It was twenty-five minutes to twelve, and of course it was
Monica,’ said I, ‘and half a sovereign if you reach it in twenty
fare, but I jumped in before he could object. ‘The Church of St.
cab came through the street. The driver looked twice at such a shabby
I should run for it, or whether I should perch behind her landau when a
“This was quite too good to lose, Watson. I was just balancing whether

you reach it in twenty minutes.’
“‘The Church of St. Monica, John,’ she cried, ‘and half a sovereign if

a face that a man might die for.
caught a glimpse of her at the moment, but she was a lovely woman, with
pulled up before she shot out of the hall door and into it. I only
the tags of his harness were sticking out of the buckles. It hadn’t
with his coat only half-buttoned, and his tie under his ear, while all
to follow them when up the lane came a neat little landau, the coachman
“Away they went, and I was just wondering whether I should not do well

Edgeware Road. Half a guinea if you do it in twenty minutes!’
Hankey’s in Regent Street, and then to the Church of St. Monica in the
earnestly, ‘Drive like the devil,’ he shouted, ‘first to Gross &
the cab, he pulled a gold watch from his pocket and looked at it
he emerged, looking even more flurried than before. As he stepped up to
excitedly, and waving his arms. Of her I could see nothing. Presently
him in the windows of the sitting-room, pacing up and down, talking
“He was in the house about half an hour, and I could catch glimpses of

a man who was thoroughly at home.
to wait, and brushed past the maid who opened the door with the air of
I had heard. He appeared to be in a great hurry, shouted to the cabman
handsome man, dark, aquiline, and moustached—evidently the man of whom
to Briony Lodge, and a gentleman sprang out. He was a remarkably
“I was still balancing the matter in my mind when a hansom cab drove up

“I am following you closely,” I answered.

to understand the situation.”
details, but I have to let you see my little difficulties, if you are
widened the field of my inquiry. I fear that I bore you with these
gentleman’s chambers in the Temple. It was a delicate point, and it
continue my work at Briony Lodge, or turn my attention to the
likely. On the issue of this question depended whether I should
transferred the photograph to his keeping. If the latter, it was less
his friend, or his mistress? If the former, she had probably
them, and what the object of his repeated visits? Was she his client,
He was a lawyer. That sounded ominous. What was the relation between
“This Godfrey Norton was evidently an important factor in the matter.

over my plan of campaign.
began to walk up and down near Briony Lodge once more, and to think
and knew all about him. When I had listened to all they had to tell, I
confidant. They had driven him home a dozen times from Serpentine-mews,
Norton, of the Inner Temple. See the advantages of a cabman as a
never calls less than once a day, and often twice. He is a Mr. Godfrey
visitor, but a good deal of him. He is dark, handsome, and dashing,
goes out at other times, except when she sings. Has only one male
out at five every day, and returns at seven sharp for dinner. Seldom
Serpentine-mews, to a man. She lives quietly, sings at concerts, drives
daintiest thing under a bonnet on this planet. So say the
“Oh, she has turned all the men’s heads down in that part. She is the

“And what of Irene Adler?” I asked.

listen to.”
not in the least interested, but whose biographies I was compelled to
nothing of half a dozen other people in the neighbourhood in whom I was
and as much information as I could desire about Miss Adler, to say
exchange twopence, a glass of half-and-half, two fills of shag tobacco,
the ostlers a hand in rubbing down their horses, and received in
was a mews in a lane which runs down by one wall of the garden. I lent
“I then lounged down the street and found, as I expected, that there

anything else of interest.
examined it closely from every point of view, but without noting
could be reached from the top of the coach-house. I walked round it and
open. Behind there was nothing remarkable, save that the passage window
and those preposterous English window fasteners which a child could
the right side, well furnished, with long windows almost to the floor,
the road, two stories. Chubb lock to the door. Large sitting-room on
villa, with a garden at the back, but built out in front right up to
that there is to know. I soon found Briony Lodge. It is a _bijou_
freemasonry among horsey men. Be one of them, and you will know all
character of a groom out of work. There is a wonderful sympathy and
I left the house a little after eight o’clock this morning in the
“Quite so; but the sequel was rather unusual. I will tell you, however.

perhaps the house, of Miss Irene Adler.”
“I can’t imagine. I suppose that you have been watching the habits, and

my morning, or what I ended by doing.”
“It’s quite too funny. I am sure you could never guess how I employed

“What is it?”

was obliged to lie back, limp and helpless, in the chair.
“Well, really!” he cried, and then he choked and laughed again until he

heartily for some minutes.
pockets, he stretched out his legs in front of the fire and laughed
tweed-suited and respectable, as of old. Putting his hands into his
vanished into the bedroom, whence he emerged in five minutes
times before I was certain that it was indeed he. With a nod he
friend’s amazing powers in the use of disguises, I had to look three
disreputable clothes, walked into the room. Accustomed as I was to my
groom, ill-kempt and side-whiskered, with an inflamed face and
It was close upon four before the door opened, and a drunken-looking

possibility of his failing had ceased to enter into my head.
mysteries. So accustomed was I to his invariable success that the very
quick, subtle methods by which he disentangled the most inextricable
made it a pleasure to me to study his system of work, and to follow the
masterly grasp of a situation, and his keen, incisive reasoning, which
investigation which my friend had on hand, there was something in his
character of its own. Indeed, apart from the nature of the
the nature of the case and the exalted station of his client gave it a
associated with the two crimes which I have already recorded, still,
surrounded by none of the grim and strange features which were
I was already deeply interested in his inquiry, for, though it was
however, with the intention of awaiting him, however long he might be.
shortly after eight o’clock in the morning. I sat down beside the fire,
yet returned. The landlady informed me that he had left the house
At three o’clock precisely I was at Baker Street, but Holmes had not

II.


to chat this little matter over with you.”
good enough to call to-morrow afternoon at three o’clock I should like
wheels of the royal brougham rolled down the street. “If you will be
some good news for you. And good-night, Watson,” he added, as the
“Then, good-night, your Majesty, and I trust that we shall soon have

“It was.”

photograph a cabinet?”
Holmes took a note of it. “One other question,” said he. “Was the

“Is Briony Lodge, Serpentine Avenue, St. John’s Wood.”

“And Mademoiselle’s address?” he asked.

to him.
Holmes scribbled a receipt upon a sheet of his note-book and handed it

said.
“There are three hundred pounds in gold and seven hundred in notes,” he

it on the table.
The King took a heavy chamois leather bag from under his cloak and laid

“And for present expenses?”

have that photograph.”
“I tell you that I would give one of the provinces of my kingdom to

“Absolutely?”

“You have _carte blanche_.”

“Then, as to money?”

“Pray do so. I shall be all anxiety.”

“Then I shall drop you a line to let you know how we progress.”

Von Kramm.”
“Certainly. You will find me at the Langham under the name of the Count

present?”
just at present. Your Majesty will, of course, stay in London for the
very fortunate, as I have one or two matters of importance to look into
“Oh, then we have three days yet,” said Holmes with a yawn. “That is

betrothal was publicly proclaimed. That will be next Monday.”
“Because she has said that she would send it on the day when the

“And why?”

“I am sure.”

“You are sure that she has not sent it yet?”

lengths to which she would not go—none.”
resolute of men. Rather than I should marry another woman, there are no
has the face of the most beautiful of women, and the mind of the most
she will do it. You do not know her, but she has a soul of steel. She
“Threatens to send them the photograph. And she will do it. I know that

“And Irene Adler?”

would bring the matter to an end.”
herself the very soul of delicacy. A shadow of a doubt as to my conduct
Scandinavia. You may know the strict principles of her family. She is
“To Clotilde Lothman von Saxe-Meningen, second daughter of the King of

“So I have heard.”

“I am about to be married.”

“But how?”

“To ruin me.”

“Very, indeed. And what does she propose to do with the photograph?”

“But a very serious one to me,” returned the King reproachfully.

Holmes laughed. “It is quite a pretty little problem,” said he.

“Absolutely none.”

“No sign of it?”

been waylaid. There has been no result.”
house. Once we diverted her luggage when she travelled. Twice she has
“Five attempts have been made. Twice burglars in my pay ransacked her

“Stolen, then.”

“She will not sell.”

“Your Majesty must pay. It must be bought.”

“We have tried and failed.”

“It must be recovered.”

“I was only Crown Prince then. I was young. I am but thirty now.”

“You have compromised yourself seriously.”

“I was mad—insane.”

indiscretion.”
“Oh, dear! That is very bad! Your Majesty has indeed committed an

“We were both in the photograph.”

“Bought.”

“My photograph.”

“Imitated.”

“My own seal.”

“Stolen.”

“My private note-paper.”

“Pooh, pooh! Forgery.”

“There is the writing.”

prove their authenticity?”
produce her letters for blackmailing or other purposes, how is she to
“Then I fail to follow your Majesty. If this young person should

“None.”

“No legal papers or certificates?”

“None.”

“Was there a secret marriage?”

“Precisely so. But how—”

those letters back.”
wrote her some compromising letters, and is now desirous of getting
Majesty, as I understand, became entangled with this young person,
Retired from operatic stage—ha! Living in London—quite so! Your
Contralto—hum! La Scala, hum! Prima donna Imperial Opera of Warsaw—yes!
“Let me see!” said Holmes. “Hum! Born in New Jersey in the year 1858.

monograph upon the deep-sea fishes.
that of a Hebrew rabbi and that of a staff-commander who had written a
information. In this case I found her biography sandwiched in between
name a subject or a person on which he could not at once furnish
all paragraphs concerning men and things, so that it was difficult to
opening his eyes. For many years he had adopted a system of docketing
“Kindly look her up in my index, Doctor,” murmured Holmes without

Irene Adler. The name is no doubt familiar to you.”
visit to Warsaw, I made the acquaintance of the well-known adventuress,
“The facts are briefly these: Some five years ago, during a lengthy

“Then, pray consult,” said Holmes, shutting his eyes once more.

from Prague for the purpose of consulting you.”
an agent without putting myself in his power. I have come _incognito_
person. Yet the matter was so delicate that I could not confide it to
understand that I am not accustomed to doing such business in my own
more and passing his hand over his high white forehead, “you can
“But you can understand,” said our strange visitor, sitting down once

Bohemia.”
Ormstein, Grand Duke of Cassel-Felstein, and hereditary King of
was aware that I was addressing Wilhelm Gottsreich Sigismond von
“Why, indeed?” murmured Holmes. “Your Majesty had not spoken before I

he cried; “I am the King. Why should I attempt to conceal it?”
the mask from his face and hurled it upon the ground. “You are right,”
uncontrollable agitation. Then, with a gesture of desperation, he tore
The man sprang from his chair and paced up and down the room in

should be better able to advise you.”
“If your Majesty would condescend to state your case,” he remarked, “I

slowly reopened his eyes and looked impatiently at his gigantic client.
most incisive reasoner and most energetic agent in Europe. Holmes
lounging figure of the man who had been no doubt depicted to him as the
Our visitor glanced with some apparent surprise at the languid,

his armchair and closing his eyes.
“I was also aware of that,” murmured Holmes, settling himself down in

kings of Bohemia.”
plainly, the matter implicates the great House of Ormstein, hereditary
seriously compromise one of the reigning families of Europe. To speak
be taken to quench what might grow to be an immense scandal and
“The circumstances are of great delicacy, and every precaution has to

“I was aware of it,” said Holmes dryly.

not exactly my own.”
confess at once that the title by which I have just called myself is
person who employs me wishes his agent to be unknown to you, and I may
“You will excuse this mask,” continued our strange visitor. “The august

“And I.”

“I promise,” said Holmes.

European history.”
much to say that it is of such weight it may have an influence upon
that time the matter will be of no importance. At present it is not too
“by binding you both to absolute secrecy for two years; at the end of
The Count shrugged his broad shoulders. “Then I must begin,” said he,

gentleman anything which you may say to me.”
my chair. “It is both, or none,” said he. “You may say before this
I rose to go, but Holmes caught me by the wrist and pushed me back into

alone.”
importance. If not, I should much prefer to communicate with you
discretion, whom I may trust with a matter of the most extreme
understand that this gentleman, your friend, is a man of honour and
“You may address me as the Count Von Kramm, a Bohemian nobleman. I

have I the honour to address?”
Watson, who is occasionally good enough to help me in my cases. Whom
“Pray take a seat,” said Holmes. “This is my friend and colleague, Dr.

one to the other of us, as if uncertain which to address.
marked German accent. “I told you that I would call.” He looked from
“You had my note?” he asked with a deep harsh voice and a strongly

of obstinacy.
and a long, straight chin suggestive of resolution pushed to the length
he appeared to be a man of strong character, with a thick, hanging lip,
was still raised to it as he entered. From the lower part of the face
mask, which he had apparently adjusted that very moment, for his hand
part of his face, extending down past the cheekbones, a black vizard
carried a broad-brimmed hat in his hand, while he wore across the upper
barbaric opulence which was suggested by his whole appearance. He
trimmed at the tops with rich brown fur, completed the impression of
beryl. Boots which extended halfway up his calves, and which were
secured at the neck with a brooch which consisted of a single flaming
thrown over his shoulders was lined with flame-coloured silk and
fronts of his double-breasted coat, while the deep blue cloak which was
taste. Heavy bands of astrakhan were slashed across the sleeves and
with a richness which would, in England, be looked upon as akin to bad
in height, with the chest and limbs of a Hercules. His dress was rich
A man entered who could hardly have been less than six feet six inches

“Come in!” said Holmes.

authoritative tap.
passage, paused immediately outside the door. Then there was a loud and
A slow and heavy step, which had been heard upon the stairs and in the

Sit down in that armchair, Doctor, and give us your best attention.”
“Never mind him. I may want your help, and so may he. Here he comes.

“But your client—”

And this promises to be interesting. It would be a pity to miss it.”
“Not a bit, Doctor. Stay where you are. I am lost without my Boswell.

“I think that I had better go, Holmes.”

is nothing else.”
and fifty guineas apiece. There’s money in this case, Watson, if there
the window. “A nice little brougham and a pair of beauties. A hundred
“A pair, by the sound,” said he. “Yes,” he continued, glancing out of

whistled.
wheels against the curb, followed by a sharp pull at the bell. Holmes
As he spoke there was the sharp sound of horses’ hoofs and grating

doubts.”
face. And here he comes, if I am not mistaken, to resolve all our
writes upon Bohemian paper and prefers wearing a mask to showing his
remains, therefore, to discover what is wanted by this German who
that. It is the German who is so uncourteous to his verbs. It only
all quarters received.’ A Frenchman or Russian could not have written
peculiar construction of the sentence—‘This account of you we have from
“Precisely. And the man who wrote the note is a German. Do you note the

“The paper was made in Bohemia,” I said.

from his cigarette.
that?” His eyes sparkled, and he sent up a great blue triumphant cloud
glass-factories and paper-mills.’ Ha, ha, my boy, what do you make of
as being the scene of the death of Wallenstein, and for its numerous
German-speaking country—in Bohemia, not far from Carlsbad. ‘Remarkable
from his shelves. “Eglow, Eglonitz—here we are, Egria. It is in a
glance at our Continental Gazetteer.” He took down a heavy brown volume
our ‘Co.’ ‘P,’ of course, stands for ‘Papier.’ Now for the ‘Eg.’ Let us
which is the German for ‘Company.’ It is a customary contraction like
“Not at all. The ‘G’ with the small ‘t’ stands for ‘Gesellschaft,’

“The name of the maker, no doubt; or his monogram, rather.”

“What do you make of that?” asked Holmes.

with a small “t” woven into the texture of the paper.
I did so, and saw a large “E” with a small “g,” a “P,” and a large “G”

paper at all. Hold it up to the light.”
“Peculiar—that is the very word,” said Holmes. “It is not an English

stiff.”
be bought under half a crown a packet. It is peculiarly strong and
endeavouring to imitate my companion’s processes. “Such paper could not
“The man who wrote it was presumably well to do,” I remarked,

written.
I carefully examined the writing, and the paper upon which it was

it?”
theories to suit facts. But the note itself. What do you deduce from
data. Insensibly one begins to twist facts to suit theories, instead of
“I have no data yet. It is a capital mistake to theorise before one has

means?”
“This is indeed a mystery,” I remarked. “What do you imagine that it

wear a mask.”
chamber then at that hour, and do not take it amiss if your visitor
This account of you we have from all quarters received. Be in your
matters which are of an importance which can hardly be exaggerated.
Europe have shown that you are one who may safely be trusted with
deepest moment. Your recent services to one of the royal houses of
said, “a gentleman who desires to consult you upon a matter of the very
“There will call upon you to-night, at a quarter to eight o’clock,” it

The note was undated, and without either signature or address.

upon the table. “It came by the last post,” said he. “Read it aloud.”
over a sheet of thick, pink-tinted notepaper which had been lying open
of my trifling experiences, you may be interested in this.” He threw
little problems, and since you are good enough to chronicle one or two
both seen and observed. By the way, since you are interested in these
my point. Now, I know that there are seventeen steps, because I have
“Quite so! You have not observed. And yet you have seen. That is just

“How many? I don’t know.”

“Then how many are there?”

“Well, some hundreds of times.”

“How often?”

“Frequently.”

which lead up from the hall to this room.”
distinction is clear. For example, you have frequently seen the steps
down into an armchair. “You see, but you do not observe. The
“Quite so,” he answered, lighting a cigarette, and throwing himself

believe that my eyes are as good as yours.”
reasoning I am baffled until you explain your process. And yet I
could easily do it myself, though at each successive instance of your
“the thing always appears to me to be so ridiculously simple that I
process of deduction. “When I hear you give your reasons,” I remarked,
I could not help laughing at the ease with which he explained his

pronounce him to be an active member of the medical profession.”
he has secreted his stethoscope, I must be dull, indeed, if I do not
forefinger, and a bulge on the right side of his top-hat to show where
iodoform, with a black mark of nitrate of silver upon his right
to your practice, if a gentleman walks into my rooms smelling of
particularly malignant boot-slitting specimen of the London slavey. As
deduction that you had been out in vile weather, and that you had a
order to remove crusted mud from it. Hence, you see, my double
someone who has very carelessly scraped round the edges of the sole in
scored by six almost parallel cuts. Obviously they have been caused by
of your left shoe, just where the firelight strikes it, the leather is
“It is simplicity itself,” said he; “my eyes tell me that on the inside

He chuckled to himself and rubbed his long, nervous hands together.

again, I fail to see how you work it out.”
Jane, she is incorrigible, and my wife has given her notice, but there,
have changed my clothes I can’t imagine how you deduce it. As to Mary
country walk on Thursday and came home in a dreadful mess, but as I
been burned, had you lived a few centuries ago. It is true that I had a
“My dear Holmes,” said I, “this is too much. You would certainly have

servant girl?”
yourself very wet lately, and that you have a most clumsy and careless
“I see it, I deduce it. How do I know that you have been getting

“Then, how do you know?”

that you intended to go into harness.”
fancy, Watson. And in practice again, I observe. You did not tell me
“Indeed, I should have thought a little more. Just a trifle more, I

“Seven!” I answered.

on seven and a half pounds since I saw you.”
“Wedlock suits you,” he remarked. “I think, Watson, that you have put

and looked me over in his singular introspective fashion.
spirit case and a gasogene in the corner. Then he stood before the fire
me to an armchair, threw across his case of cigars, and indicated a
to see me. With hardly a word spoken, but with a kindly eye, he waved
His manner was not effusive. It seldom was; but he was glad, I think,

and was shown up to the chamber which had formerly been in part my own.
dreams and was hot upon the scent of some new problem. I rang the bell
story. He was at work again. He had risen out of his drug-created
knew his every mood and habit, his attitude and manner told their own
head sunk upon his chest and his hands clasped behind him. To me, who
against the blind. He was pacing the room swiftly, eagerly, with his
looked up, I saw his tall, spare figure pass twice in a dark silhouette
extraordinary powers. His rooms were brilliantly lit, and, even as I
keen desire to see Holmes again, and to know how he was employing his
with the dark incidents of the Study in Scarlet, I was seized with a
door, which must always be associated in my mind with my wooing, and
my way led me through Baker Street. As I passed the well-remembered
journey to a patient (for I had now returned to civil practice), when
One night—it was on the twentieth of March, 1888—I was returning from a

the daily press, I knew little of my former friend and companion.
his activity, however, which I merely shared with all the readers of
successfully for the reigning family of Holland. Beyond these signs of
finally of the mission which he had accomplished so delicately and
of the singular tragedy of the Atkinson brothers at Trincomalee, and
summons to Odessa in the case of the Trepoff murder, of his clearing up
From time to time I heard some vague account of his doings: of his
mysteries which had been abandoned as hopeless by the official police.
observation in following out those clues, and clearing up those
and occupied his immense faculties and extraordinary powers of
nature. He was still, as ever, deeply attracted by the study of crime,
the drowsiness of the drug, and the fierce energy of his own keen
books, and alternating from week to week between cocaine and ambition,
soul, remained in our lodgings in Baker Street, buried among his old
while Holmes, who loathed every form of society with his whole Bohemian
of his own establishment, were sufficient to absorb all my attention,
interests which rise up around the man who first finds himself master
from each other. My own complete happiness, and the home-centred
I had seen little of Holmes lately. My marriage had drifted us away

Adler, of dubious and questionable memory.
yet there was but one woman to him, and that woman was the late Irene
be more disturbing than a strong emotion in a nature such as his. And
instrument, or a crack in one of his own high-power lenses, would not
throw a doubt upon all his mental results. Grit in a sensitive
adjusted temperament was to introduce a distracting factor which might
reasoner to admit such intrusions into his own delicate and finely
drawing the veil from men’s motives and actions. But for the trained
and a sneer. They were admirable things for the observer—excellent for
false position. He never spoke of the softer passions, save with a gibe
the world has seen, but as a lover he would have placed himself in a
was, I take it, the most perfect reasoning and observing machine that
were abhorrent to his cold, precise but admirably balanced mind. He
akin to love for Irene Adler. All emotions, and that one particularly,
predominates the whole of her sex. It was not that he felt any emotion
mention her under any other name. In his eyes she eclipses and
To Sherlock Holmes she is always _the_ woman. I have seldom heard him

I.


I. A SCANDAL IN BOHEMIA



   XII.   The Adventure of the Copper Beeches
   XI.    The Adventure of the Beryl Coronet
   X.     The Adventure of the Noble Bachelor
   IX.    The Adventure of the Engineer’s Thumb
   VIII.  The Adventure of the Speckled Band
   VII.   The Adventure of the Blue Carbuncle
   VI.    The Man with the Twisted Lip
   V.     The Five Orange Pips
   IV.    The Boscombe Valley Mystery
   III.   A Case of Identity
   II.    The Red-Headed League
   I.     A Scandal in Bohemia


Contents



by Arthur Conan Doyle



The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes



cover



Produced by an anonymous Project Gutenberg volunteer and Jose Menendez



*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ADVENTURES OF SHERLOCK HOLMES ***

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Language: English

Last Updated: May 20, 2019
Release Date: November 29, 2002 [EBook #1661]

Author: Arthur Conan Doyle

Title: The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes


with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with

Project Gutenberg's The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes, by Arthur Conan Doyle

